Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of
Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied
Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer
Gemini Robotics Team, Google DeepMind1



General-purpose robots need a deep understanding of the physical world, advanced reasoning, and
general and dexterous control. This report introduces the latest generation of the Gemini Robotics
model family: Gemini Robotics 1.5, a multi-embodiment Vision-Language-Action (VLA) model, and
Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5, a state-of-the-art Embodied Reasoning (ER) model. We are bringing together
three major innovations. First, Gemini Robotics 1.5 features a novel architecture and a Motion Transfer
(MT) mechanism, which enables it to learn from heterogeneous, multi-embodiment robot data and
makes the VLA more general. Second, Gemini Robotics 1.5 interleaves actions with a multi-level internal
reasoning process in natural language. This enables the robot to “think before acting” and notably
improves its ability to decompose and execute complex, multi-step tasks, and also makes the robot’s
behavior more interpretable to the user. Third, Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 establishes a new state-of-the-art
for embodied reasoning, i.e., for reasoning capabilities that are critical for robots, such as visual and
spatial understanding, task planning, and progress estimation. Together, this family of models takes us
a step towards an era of physical agents—enabling robots to perceive, think and then act so they can
solve complex multi-step tasks.


1. Introduction
Truly general robots will require a deep understanding of the physical world. Our previous work,
Gemini Robotics (Gemini-Robotics-Team et al., 2025), established a strong foundation by leverag-
ing Gemini’s rich world knowledge to create a Vision-Language-Action (VLA) model that exhibits
impressive interactivity, generality, and dexterity in direct robot control. We now introduce the
Gemini Robotics 1.5 (GR 1.5) family of robot foundation models, built on the latest generation of
Gemini (Comanici et al., 2025). The new model family significantly enhances the capabilities of
Gemini Robotics and brings Gemini’s advanced thinking and agentic paradigm to the physical world. It
includes Gemini Robotics 1.5, a multi-embodiment VLA model (Bjorck et al., 2025; Intelligence et al.,
2025; Wen et al., 2025; Zitkovich et al., 2023) with strong reasoning and generalization, and Gemini
Robotics-ER 1.5, a generalist Vision-Language Model (VLM) that achieves a new state-of-the-art across
embodied reasoning benchmarks. We combine these two models into an agentic system that enables
robots to solve complex problems by orchestrating user dialogue, high-level reasoning and planning,
agentic tool use and low-level action.
Gemini Robotics 1.5 advances the frontier of Vision-Language-Action (VLA) pre-training by integrat-
ing two core breakthroughs. Firstly, a novel architecture and a Motion Transfer (MT) mechanism
enable the model to learn from diverse robot data sources, forming a unified understanding of motion
and physics. This multi-embodiment pre-training allows GR 1.5 to control multiple robots, including
the ALOHA, Bi-arm Franka, and Apollo humanoid robots, without any robot-specific post-training, and
it also enables zero-shot skill transfer from one robot to another. Secondly, GR 1.5 is a Thinking VLA
  1
   See Contributions and Acknowledgments section for full author list.     Please send correspondence to
gemini-robotics-report@google.com.



 © 2025 Google DeepMind. All rights reserved
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




                                                      T
                                                      ext




                                                     Ac
                                                      ti
                                                       on




Figure 1 | The Gemini Robotics 1.5 family of models consists of Gemini Robotics 1.5, a VLA, and Gemini
Robotics 1.5-ER, a VLM with state-of-the-art embodied reasoning capabilities. They can be combined together
to form a powerful agentic framework.


that can explicitly reason about its actions, interleaving a stream of thoughts with physical movements.
This allows the model to convert visual observations into language-based thoughts, simplify complex
instructions, detect task success or failure, propose recovery behaviors, and make the robot’s actions
more interpretable to human users.
Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 (GR-ER 1.5) advances the state-of-the-art for embodied reasoning (Chen
et al., 2024a,b; Li et al., 2023; Zhi et al., 2025), i.e., the visuo-spatial-temporal understanding of
the physical world that is required for robotic applications. Building upon Gemini’s state-of-the-art
thinking and multimodal capabilities, GR-ER 1.5 significantly outperforms other frontier models
across a broad suite of embodied intelligence benchmarks, while retaining the general capabilities of a
frontier model and being considerably faster. GR-ER 1.5’s physical understanding combines naturally
with Gemini’s ability to use tools, communicate using modalities like video and audio, and write code,
opening up a broad spectrum of potential applications.
To achieve truly general-purpose robot agents, we combine our models in an agentic framework
(Figure 1). This framework is key to unlocking new capabilities: it handles long-horizon task execution
via complex planning and adaptive orchestration, facilitates multimodal interaction, enables robots to
leverage user-specified tools (e.g. web search) to solve problems and complete tasks, and implements
a multi-layered safety mechanism through explicit reasoning about safety violations.




                                                                                                                                  2
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



2. Method Overview

2.1. Model & Architecture

Gemini Robotics 1.5 model family. Both Gemini Robotics 1.5 and Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 inherit
Gemini’s multimodal world knowledge. Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 (GR-ER 1.5 for short), our VLM, fully
retains Gemini’s capabilities including advanced reasoning, tool use, and more. It has additionally
been optimized for complex embodied reasoning problems such as task planning, reasoning for
spatial expertise, and task progress estimation. GR-ER 1.5 significantly extends and improves upon
GR-ER’s embodied reasoning capabilities. Gemini Robotics 1.5 (GR 1.5 for short), our VLA model,
translates mid- and short-horizon instructions into robot actions. It understands open-vocabulary
natural language instructions, can perform reasoning steps before emitting an action, and it can
natively control multiple robots with different embodiments. As such, GR 1.5 significantly extends
the previous Gemini Robotics’ capabilities.

Agentic System Architecture. The full agentic system consists of an orchestrator and an action model
that are implemented by the VLM and the VLA, respectively:

   • Orchestrator: The orchestrator processes user input and environmental feedback and controls
     the overall task flow. It breaks complex tasks into simpler steps that can be executed by the
     VLA, and it performs success detection to decide when to switch to the next step. To accomplish
     a user-specified task, it can leverage digital tools to access external information or perform
     additional reasoning steps. We use GR-ER 1.5 as the orchestrator.
   • Action model: The action model translates instructions issued by the orchestrator into low-
     level robot actions. It is made available to the orchestrator as a specialized tool and receives
     instructions via open-vocabulary natural language. The action model is implemented by the GR
     1.5 model.

Embodied thinking. A core innovation of Gemini Robotics 1.5 is Embodied Thinking: the ability
to reason—or "think"—before taking action (Huang et al., 2025; Lee et al., 2025; Lin et al., 2025;
Zawalski et al., 2024), which operates across both the VLM and the VLA models. The GR-ER 1.5
model combines Gemini’s thinking and tool-use with an enhanced physical world understanding,
enabling it to function within the agentic system for high-level planning. This includes breaking
complex tasks into coarse-grained plans, adaptively updating those plans based on execution, or
calling external tools like web search. We also introduce an analogous thinking capability to the
VLA, creating the Thinking VLA, or GR 1.5 (Thinking On) in our plots and results. Our Thinking
VLA explicitly reasons about the instruction and its perception, generates thinking traces in natural
language (Belkhale et al., 2024; Smith et al., 2025), and appends them to the context window before
emitting an action. This process simplifies complex instructions into sequences of primitive skills,
increases the transparency in human-robot interactions, and offers a new paradigm for scaling VLA
capabilities.

To understand how embodied thinking and the agentic system architecture may interact, let us
consider a user instruction such as “Pack the suitcase for a trip to London”. The orchestrator (GR-ER
1.5) accesses a travel itinerary and a recent weather forecast with user permission to decide which
clothes are appropriate to pack. It then produces a high-level plan consisting of instructions such as
“pack the rain jacket into the luggage” that it communicates to the action model. The action model then
decomposes each such instruction into shorter segments that correspond to a few seconds of robot
movement each (e.g., “pick up the rain jacket from the wardrobe”). These are executed directly, or
they are further translated into an inner monologue of primitive motions such as “move the gripper to

                                                                                                                                  3
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



the left” or “close the gripper”, thus leveraging an explicit understanding of the geometry of the scene
to solve the task. Overall, our models’ ability to perform embodied thinking dramatically improves
their ability to handle multi-step tasks by allowing the models to compose skills in a structured,
deliberate manner, ultimately leading to more robust and reliable robot performance.

Motion Transfer. In Gemini Robotics 1.5, we also introduce a new model architecture and training
recipe for the VLA. These enable the model to learn from different robots and data sources, to form a
unified understanding of motions and the effects of physical interactions, enabling skills to transfer
across very different robot embodiments. We refer to the new training recipe as Motion Transfer (MT)
in our results.

2.2. Robot Data

The dataset used for training the Gemini Robotics 1.5 contains both multi-embodiment robot data
collected on ALOHA (ALOHA-2-Team et al., 2024), Bi-arm Franka (Franka) and Apollo humanoid
(Apptronik), as well as publicly available text, image and video datasets on the Internet. The robot data
consists of thousands of diverse tasks across these platforms covering a broad range of manipulation
skills across a multitude of scenes.

2.3. Evaluation

For all comparisons reported in this report, we perform A/B/n testing on real robots. This means that
we test all models involved in a particular comparison in an interleaved manner on the same robot
work cell, thereby reducing variance in the evaluations that might otherwise arise from variations
across robots and environmental conditions.

The development of GR 1.5 requires comparisons of a large number of architecture variations,
algorithm hyperparameters and other settings across multiple embodiments and tasks. To improve
research iteration speed, we have developed methods for evaluation without real robots in the loop.

We use the open-source MuJoCo simulator to generate evaluation scenes for the robot embodiments
in this report. By carefully aligning the visual and physical parameters of simulated and real scenes,
we are able to achieve a strong rank consistency between evaluations in simulation and on the real
robot (see Fig. 21 in the Appendix B.1).

This has allowed us to massively scale up the breadth of our evaluations to new objects, scenes, and
environments, and to rapidly iterate on architectural and algorithmic improvements. Over 90% of the
evaluation episodes during the development of Gemini Robotics 1.5 were conducted in simulation.
Although real-world evaluation is still required to determine model quality, evaluation in simulation
dramatically reduces the volume of tests on real hardware.


3. Gemini Robotics 1.5 is a general multi-embodiment Vision-Language-Action
   Model
GR 1.5 can control robots with dramatically different form factors to complete a large variety of tasks
out-of-the-box, without the need for post-training to specialize the model to a particular embodiment
or task. Fig. 2 shows example tasks on ALOHA, Bi-arm Franka and Apollo humanoid robots.

In this section, we present a comprehensive evaluation of GR 1.5 and a comparison with our previous
models, Gemini Robotics and Gemini Robotics On-Device. Our experiments are designed to answer
the following questions:

                                                                                                                                  4
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




Figure 2 | GR 1.5 can control three different robots with the same checkpoint to accomplish a variety of tasks
out-of-the-box.


   1. How does GR 1.5 perform and generalize on short-horizon tasks?
   2. Does GR 1.5 effectively learn from and transfer knowledge across different embodiments?
   3. How does the thinking process contribute to multi-step tasks?

We develop a benchmark that follows the design philosophy that was used to evaluate Gemini
Robotics (Gemini-Robotics-Team et al., 2025). We extend it to cover all our embodiments, adding
more challenging and multi-step tasks, as well as tasks that test cross-embodiment transfer and
thinking. The full benchmark includes 230 tasks in total.

We generally report mean and standard error of the mean of progress score (definitions in Appendix B.2
- Appendix B.4), as it provides a continuous and finer-grained measure of model performance and,
as such, is especially useful for complex multi-step tasks. For completeness, we also include the
corresponding plots of success rate in the Appendix B.5.


3.1. Gemini Robotics 1.5 can generalize to new environments and tasks

To understand GR 1.5’s generalization performance on short-horizon tasks, we use the same method-
ology as in (Gemini-Robotics-Team et al., 2025) and consider multiple axes of variation:


   • Visual Generalization: robustness to visual variations such as changes in background, lighting,
     distractor objects, or textures.
   • Instruction Generalization: ability to understand the intent behind natural language in-
     structions, including handling paraphrasing, typos, different languages, and varying levels of
     specificity.
   • Action Generalization: ability to adapt learned movements or synthesize novel ones, for
     example, in order to handle new initial conditions or object instances.
   • Task Generalization: ability to successfully execute a new task in a new environment. This
     is the most comprehensive form of generalization as it simultaneously requires robustness to
     visual changes, understanding of open-vocabulary instructions, and the ability to adapt learned
     motions to new tasks.



                                                                                                                                  5
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



                                                                        Gemini Robotics 1.5                    Gemini Robotics                  Gemini Robotics On-Device
                                                      1.0


                                                     0.8
                                                                     0.83
                                                                                                                                        0.81
                                                                            0.73          0.76                                                        0.78



                                   Progress Score
                                                     0.6                                                                                       0.73          0.70

                 ALOHA
                                                                                   0.66                 0.67

                                                                                                 0.53             0.54
                                                     0.4
                                                                                                                                                                    0.44 0.41

                                                     0.2
                                                                                                                         0.25
                                                                                                                                 0.17
                                                     0.0
                                                                     In-Distribution       Instruction              Action                 Visual               Task
                                                                                          Generalization         Generalization         Generalization       Generalization

                                                               1.0



                                                               0.8




                 Bi-arm Franka
                                                                        0.74                                                                   0.77



                                              Progress Score
                                                               0.6                           0.73                    0.70


                                                               0.4                                                                                                  0.50

                                                                               0.36
                                                                                                                                0.34
                                                               0.2                                                                                    0.09
                                                                                                    0.22
                                                                                                                                                                           0.12
                                                               0.0
                                                                     In-Distribution        Instruction               Action                 Visual               Task
                                                                                           Generalization          Generalization         Generalization       Generalization

                                                               1.0



                                                               0.8




                 Apollo Humanoid
                                                                        0.74                                                                   0.73


                                              Progress Score
                                                               0.6                                                   0.66
                                                                                             0.62                                                                   0.63

                                                               0.4


                                                                               0.32
                                                               0.2
                                                                                                                                0.24
                                                                                                    0.20                                                                   0.07
                                                                                                                                                      0.16
                                                               0.0
                                                                     In-Distribution        Instruction               Action                 Visual               Task
                                                                                           Generalization          Generalization         Generalization       Generalization


Figure 3 | Breakdown of GR 1.5 generalization capabilities across our robots. GR 1.5 consistently outperforms
the baselines and handles all four types of variations more effectively.


We first analyze how GR 1.5 compares against Gemini Robotics and Gemini Robotics On-Device (GRoD
for short). As shown in the top plot of Fig. 3, for the ALOHA robot, GR 1.5 consistently outperforms
these two baselines across all four categories. In particular, GR 1.5 achieves substantial gains in
instruction, action, and task generalization. For the Bi-arm Franka robot and the Apollo humanoid
robot, we compare GR 1.5 against our GRoD models2 (middle and bottom plots of Fig. 3). On these
  2
   We do not show comparisons with the Gemini Robotics model from (Gemini-Robotics-Team et al., 2025), because those
models on the Bi-arm Franka and the Apollo humanoid were post-trained specialists, and they had little generalization
beyond variations of the trained tasks.


                                                                                                                                                                                  6
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer


                                                                                  Gemini Robotics 1.5
                                                                                  Gemini Robotics 1.5 (Multi-embodiment, no Motion Transfer)
                                                                                  Gemini Robotics 1.5 (Single embodiment, no Motion Transfer)
                                                      1.0



                                                      0.8
                                                            0.83                                                                  0.84 0.83
                                                                                                                           0.81
                                                                                 0.76
                                                                                                                                                0.70


                                     Progress Score
                                                      0.6
                                                                   0.66 0.66

                   ALOHA
                                                                                        0.67
                                                                                               0.65                                                           0.60
                                                                                                                                                       0.57
                                                                                                      0.54
                                                      0.4

                                                                                                             0.39
                                                      0.2                                                           0.31



                                                      0.0
                                                            In-Distribution       Instruction            Action               Visual               Task
                                                                                 Generalization       Generalization       Generalization       Generalization
                                                      1.0




                                                      0.8


                                                            0.74                                                           0.77




                   Bi-arm Franka
                                                                                                                    0.75
                                                                   0.69


                                     Progress Score
                                                      0.6                        0.73                 0.70
                                                                                        0.71
                                                                          0.61                               0.64

                                                                                                                                  0.55          0.50
                                                      0.4                                      0.54

                                                                                                                                                       0.38
                                                                                                                                         0.36                 0.30
                                                      0.2




                                                      0.0
                                                            In-Distribution       Instruction            Action               Visual               Task
                                                                                 Generalization       Generalization       Generalization       Generalization
                                                      1.0




                                                      0.8




                   Apollo Humanoid
                                                            0.74                                                           0.73
                                                                   0.71                                                           0.70


                                     Progress Score
                                                      0.6                                             0.66 0.66
                                                                          0.66                                                                  0.63
                                                                                 0.62
                                                                                        0.57                                             0.56          0.56
                                                                                                                    0.51
                                                      0.4                                      0.49



                                                      0.2
                                                                                                                                                              0.25


                                                      0.0
                                                            In-Distribution       Instruction            Action               Visual               Task
                                                                                 Generalization       Generalization       Generalization       Generalization

Figure 4 | Ablation on datasets and training recipes on ALOHA, Bi-arm Franka and Apollo Humanoid. GR 1.5
consistently outperforms our baselines: GR 1.5 trained on single or multi-robot data without the MT recipe.


two platforms, GR 1.5 significantly outperforms GRoD across all categories. Note that this is not an
apples-to-apples comparison because the GRoD checkpoints were trained with less data due to their
earlier release date. Additionally, GRoD is not a multi-embodiment model: each embodiment requires
a different checkpoint. Nevertheless, we include these results to illustrate the dramatic performance
improvement across different versions of Gemini Robotics.

We perform an ablation study to pinpoint the source of this significant improvement in generalization.
We establish two ablation baselines: training with data from a single embodiment versus training with
data from all embodiments, both excluding our Motion Transfer (MT) mechanism. As illustrated in
Fig. 4, while including data from other embodiments generally boosts performance, our MT training
recipe clearly amplifies the positive effect of this additional data. This study confirms both the ability

                                                                                                                                                                     7
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




                                                                                            Unhang the tape.




                                                                                           Close the pear organizer.




                                                                                           Slide open the wardrobe door.



Figure 5 | Cross embodiment benchmark. Left: Our model shows zero-shot skill transfer on tasks only seen
by another robot embodiment. Right: Example tasks trained on the first embodiment and evaluated on the
second.


of GR 1.5 to leverage multi-embodiment data, and the critical role of the MT mechanism in achieving
greater positive transfer of skills among different robots.


3.2. Learning across different robot embodiments

Gemini Robotics 1.5 is able to learn and transfer skills across different robot embodiments, leading
to both better generalization and more data-efficient learning. Although prior work (O’Neill et al.,
2024) has shown benefits of training VLAs with diverse data from multiple types of robots, there have
been few demonstrations of zero-shot transfer of skills from one robot embodiment to another. In
our experiments, we find evidence that GR 1.5’s multi-embodiment co-training and MT paradigm
enables such transfer. As shown in Fig. 5, the ALOHA robot is able to perform tasks for which training
data was only collected on the Bi-arm Franka platform, and vice versa. The same applies to the
humanoid, which can perform skills that are only available in the data from other robots (ALOHA in
this example), despite being significantly more difficult to control and a wider cross-embodiment gap.

To corroborate our observations, we measure cross-embodiment transfer quantitatively with a cross-
embodiment benchmark, defined across the three robots included in our study. For each embodiment,
we test our model and the baselines on tasks for which data had been collected only on another robot.
More details of the benchmark are in Appendix B.3.

Plots in Fig. 5 show how any model trained on single-embodiment data (Gemini Robotics, GRoD
or GR 1.5 trained on a single embodiment) performs poorly on this benchmark, while with cross-
embodiment data and MT training recipe we achieve significantly better performance. The efficacy
of leveraging cross-embodiment data with Motion Transfer (MT) depends on the initial quantity of
data available for a given robotic platform. For the ALOHA platform, which already possesses a large
dataset, merely introducing data from other embodiments appears to be less effective; however, MT
amplifies the positive transfer from this data by aligning the different embodiments and extracting


                                                                                                                                  8
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



commonalities, thereby aiding the learning process. Conversely, for Bi-arm Franka with a moderate
amount of data, adding cross-embodiment data is beneficial, and MT successfully facilitates this by
aligning and extracting shared knowledge. For humanoid robots, where data is scarce, the addition
of external embodiment data provides the greatest performance boost; yet, the effect of MT is less
pronounced here, suggesting that the technique’s alignment capabilities may be less effective when
the embodiment gap is substantially larger, such as between the highly dissimilar humanoid and
other robot forms.

In Fig. 5 we report success rate in addition to progress score in order to highlight that zero-shot
transfer with Gemini Robotics 1.5 leads to successful task execution, not just partial progress towards
completion of the task.

3.3. Thinking Helps Acting
                                                   1.0
                                                            Gemini Robotics 1.5 (Thinking on)    Gemini Robotics 1.5


                                                   0.8




                                                   0.6                                               0.67


                                  Progress Score
                                                                                  0.60
                                                         0.55                             0.55
                                                                                                             0.51
                                                   0.4




                                                   0.2
                                                                 0.26



                                                   0.0
                                                           ALOHA                 Bi-arm Franka        Humanoid

Figure 6 | Task progress in the multi-step benchmark with and without enabling thinking during inference.

In this section, we focus on the Thinking VLA model (GR 1.5 with thinking mode ON during inference).
A detailed analysis of the higher-level reasoning enabled by GR-ER 1.5 is deferred to Section 5. The
advantage of interleaving robot actions with explicit thinking steps is particularly evident in the
context of longer multi-step tasks, such as "sorting clothes by colors" (see Appendix B.4 for our
multi-step benchmark).

Fig. 6 demonstrates that enabling the thinking mode yields a sizable improvement in the progress
score for these tasks. This performance gain stems from the model’s ability to decompose the difficult
cross-modal translation, which involves mapping high-level, multi-step language instructions to low-
level robot actions, into two simpler stages. First, the model generates a language-based thinking trace
by converting the complex task into a sequence of specific, short-horizon steps (e.g., transforming
the goal of “sorting clothes” into a thought like, “move gripper to the left so that it is closer to the
clothes”). Second, the model maps these low-level language commands directly to robot actions.
This two-step decomposition proves more robust than a single, end-to-end translation because the
first step leverages the powerful visual-linguistic capabilities of the VLM backbone, while the second
involves learning a simpler action mapping.

Beyond quantitative performance gains, our experiments provide qualitative evidence of several
additional benefits of the Thinking VLA. Firstly, it significantly improves interpretability. By visualizing
the robot’s internal thinking traces, we can inspect its planned actions and predict its next steps. This
transparency enhances both human-robot trust and the safety of robot operations. Secondly, the

                                                                                                                                  9
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




Figure 7 | From left to right, top to bottom: an example rollout of the Thinking VLA: the Apollo humanoid
packing objects into a white bag. The thinking trace are overlaid on each snapshot. The Thinking VLA is able
to think about its actions at different levels, allowing it to accomplish tasks requiring semantic reasoning and
multiple steps of execution.


Thinking VLA exhibits a degree of situational awareness regarding task completion. For instance,
as shown in Fig. 7, the robot automatically switches its objective from “pick up the yellow tennis
ball” to “put the yellow tennis ball in the white bag” once the ball has been successfully grasped.
This demonstrates that the model possesses an implicit awareness of the success of the prior subtask,
removing the need for an explicit success detector. Thirdly, the Thinking VLA enables sophisticated
recovery behaviors. For example, in Fig. 7, when the water bottle slips from the right hand and lands
near the left hand, the next thinking trace immediately becomes “pick up the water bottle with the
left hand”, effectively initiating a self-correcting recovery behavior.


4. Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 is a generalist embodied reasoning model
Robots require advanced and grounded knowledge of the physical world, ranging from precise spatial
and temporal reasoning to a deep grasp of intuitive physics, causality, and affordances. We refer to this
type of real-world understanding as embodied reasoning (ER). We introduce Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5
(GR-ER 1.5), our most advanced multimodal thinking model for state-of-the-art embodied reasoning
based on Gemini. When combined with a general VLA, such as GR 1.5 showcased in Section 3, GR-ER


                                                                                                                              10
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



                                      60
                                                                              Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5
                                      58                                          (Thinking On)




                 Embodied Reasoning
                                      56

                                      54                                                            Gemini 2.5 Pro
                                                                      Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5        (Thinking On)
                                      52    Gemini Robotics-ER
                                      50                                        Gemini 2.5 Flash  GPT-5
                                                                                 (Thinking On) (Thinking On)
                                      48
                                                                                     GPT-5-mini
                                      46                                            (Thinking On)
                                       40              50        60                70               80               90
                                                                      Generality
Figure 8 | The Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 model is our most advanced model for embodied reasoning while
retaining strong performance as a general-purpose multimodal foundation model. We measure Embodied
Reasoning performance on a mix of academic benchmarks covering text-based image understanding as well as
spatial signal prediction, and measure Generality performance on MMMU, GPQA, and Aider Polyglot.


1.5 provides high-level intelligence to form the backbone of a general agentic robot system, which we
describe in Section 5.

In this section, we will focus on embodied reasoning capabilities and highlight several key properties
of GR-ER 1.5:

  1. Strong embodied reasoning performance while retaining the generality of a frontier model;
  2. Excels in key robotic capabilities, such as complex pointing, progress understanding, and
     real-world use cases;
  3. Able to scale embodied reasoning performance via inference time compute.


4.1. Generality

Notably, Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 is a generalist embodied reasoning model: it exhibits the broad
capabilities of a frontier model across many domains while also showcasing exceptional performance
as a spatial expert for real-world understanding. This is visualized in Fig. 8 which shows this trade-off
for several contemporary frontier models. To assess models quantitatively in terms of both their broad
capabilities as well as their more specialized embodied reasoning performance, we evaluate them
on two sets of benchmarks. Firstly, we measure the models’ performance across a collection of 15
widely-used academic benchmarks designed to measure embodied reasoning capabilities such as
text-based image understanding (e.g., BLINK (Fu et al., 2024), CV-Bench (Tong et al., 2024), and
ERQA (Gemini-Robotics-Team et al., 2025)) and spatial reasoning (e.g. RoboSpatial (Song et al., 2015),
Where2Place (Yuan et al., 2024), and RefSpatial (Zhou et al., 2025)). The embodied reasoning
score is a weighted average of 50% spatial reasoning benchmarks and 50% question answering
benchmarks (both image and video). Secondly, we measure the generalist performance on an equally
weighted mix of academic benchmarks that assess a broader range of capabilities including image
understanding, science, and coding via the MMMU (Yue et al., 2023), GPQA (Rein et al., 2024), and
Aider Polyglot (Gauthier, 2024) benchmarks. The full evaluation details and results are discussed in
Appendix C. Fig. 8 shows that Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 expands the Pareto frontier of generality and
embodied reasoning, achieving state-of-the-art embodied reasoning performance with comparable

                                                                                                                              11
                                      Detection, state estimation


 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer
                                                                                                              Segmentation  mask



                                                  Object Detection, State Estimation                                                                               Segmentation Masks




                                           Pointing                                                         Trajectory Prediction                           Progress Understanding


Figure 9 | The Gemini   Robotics-ER
                   Trajectory (to put into1.5
                                           bin) model has a diverse set of capabilities that can be applied on images
and videos that are useful for robotics.
                                                                                     Trajectory (to close the                  Trajectory (to hand over and put into
                                                                                             laptop)                                         white bin)
generality to other models in its model class.

                                                         Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5                           Gemini 2.5 Pro                          GPT-5
                                                         Gemini Robotics-ER                               Gemini 2.5 Flash                        GPT-5-mini
                100




                80
                                                                                                                                                   80.0
                                                                                                                                                                 76.0                 77.0
                                                                                                                                                                               73.0
                                                                                                          67.8 65.8
                60                                                                                                                                                      64.0
                                                                                                                             61.3
     Accuracy
                                                                                                                                                          60.0
                      52.6                                                                                            54.6
                             49.1
                40                                              46.2
                                           39.7                        40.2                                                         38.0
                                    35.4
                                                  30.8                               32.4                                                  32.0
                20                                       27.1                 26.3          26.5
                                                                                                   23.0


                 0
                             Average Pointing                          Spatial Pointing          Steerable Pointing                                       Point-to-Count
                                                                                   Pointing Capabilities

Figure 10 | Performance on a mix of 5 academic benchmarks for 2D pointing and point-based reasoning;
accuracy is defined as the percentage of point predictions within the ground truth mask (pointing) or correct
final count (point-to-count). The categories describe different types of point prediction and are used to
aggregate evaluation results from Point-Bench, RefSpatial, RoboSpatial, Where2Place, and PixMo Count.
Results for GPT-5 and GPT-5-mini obtained via API calls in September 2025.




                                                                                                                                                                                             12
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




Figure 11 | Complex pointing examples from GR-ER 1.5. The model can follow complex pointing prompts that
require reasoning about physical, spatial, and semantic constraints: It can localize precise parts of objects, such
as the rim of a bowl and sockets of a power strip (Row 2, Columns 1 and 3) and predict points that respect
physical, spatial, and semantic constraints, e.g., corresponding to objects that are lighter than 10 pounds
(Row 1, Column 3), and matching similar items (Row 2, Column 2). GR-ER 1.5 can also sequence points into
trajectories that respect physics (Row 1, Column 2) and avoid collisions (Row 1, Column 1).


4.2. Frontier capabilities for Embodied Reasoning

GR-ER 1.5 showcases advanced performance across a number of embodied reasoning capabilities
which are highly relevant for understanding the physical world, particularly in robotic applications.
We visualize some of these in Fig. 9 and analyze a few of these areas in detail.

Complex Pointing: A point is a flexible and lightweight representation that grounds a model’s
semantic understanding onto visual inputs. Using very few tokens, a point can precisely locate an
abstract concept, such as where to click or the most appropriate object part to grasp. By extending this
ability to predict a set of points, a model can generate more complex outputs like motion trajectories
and paths, providing precise action guidance for robots. Points can also serve as intermediate reasoning
tools for other downstream tasks, such as counting. We define the generalization of this capability,
which combines pointing with reasoning, as complex pointing.

GR-ER 1.5 achieves new state-of-the-art results on academic benchmarks for complex pointing,
as shown in Fig. 10. The evaluation spans several key capabilities: Average Pointing aggregates
performance across all benchmarks; Spatial Pointing focuses on pointing queries requiring spatial
reasoning (e.g., “point to the space left of the cup"); Steerable Pointing tests the ability to modify
points following user instructions (e.g., “move the point slightly up"); and Point-to-Count measures


                                                                                                                              13
      Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



                                                                                                 Progress Understanding
           What percentage of the task "put a screw on the right of the already inserted screw" did the robot complete?




           What percentage of the task "put the le uce into the transparent container" did the robot complete?




                                         Multi-view Success Detection                                                                                      Frame Unshuffling
                                                                                                                      Here are frames for task “fold the dress”. Output the task completion percentage for the
         Did the robot successfully move the orange pack of biscuits from the basket onto the shelf next          following frames that are presented in random order
      to the blue bowl? A: Yes
                                                                                                                                                              SHUFFLED
                              START                                           CURRENT




                        Cam 1                    Cam 2




                        Cam 3                    Cam 4
                                                                                                                                                              PREDICTED




 Figure 12 | Multiple forms of progress understanding in GR-ER 1.5. Understanding progress in scenes with robot
 interaction requires spatial, temporal, and semantic reasoning abilities potentially across multiple viewpoints
 and conditioned on language descriptions. Top: Predicting the percentage of task completion. Bottom left:
 Multi-view success detection: no single camera has sufficient information to detect success for the task “put the
 orange pack of biscuits from the basket in the shelf next to the blue bowl.” Bottom right: unshuffling video
 frames is another form of progress understanding where temporal understanding is essential.

                                                                            Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5                  Gemini 2.5 Pro                  GPT-5
                                                                            Gemini Robotics-ER                      Gemini 2.5 Flash                GPT-5-mini
           1.0




           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                       0.79                        0.80
                                                                                                                       0.74                                                          0.76
                                                                                                                                                    0.73
                                                                                                                                     0.70 0.68             0.68                             0.69
           0.6          0.66 0.66
                                                                                                                                                                              0.63

Accuracy
                                                                       0.59 0.57                                              0.60                                                                        0.60

                                      0.48
                                             0.51                                    0.50 0.52             0.49
           0.4                                      0.47 0.46                                      0.46



           0.2




           0.0
                                Real-time Multiview SD                       Real-time Singleview SD                 Offline Multiview SD                                     Offline Singleview SD
                                                                                             Success Detection Performance

 Figure 13 | Performance on various formulations of success detection (SD). Real-time SD considers model
 inference latency when computing prediction accuracy, while offline success detection assumes unlimited
 inference time for each prediction. Multiview SD uses multiple camera views while Singleview SD uses just a
 single viewpoint.


 counting accuracy when points are used as an intermediate reasoning step. Refer to C.2 for a
 more detailed breakdown. GR-ER 1.5 significantly outperforms GR-ER, Gemini 2.5, and GPT-5. It
 particularly excels at complex pointing tasks that require reasoning about physical, spatial, and
 semantic constraints including safety. We provide several examples in Fig. 11.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                 14
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer


                                                                                                Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5          Gemini 2.5 Pro            GPT-5
                                                                                                Gemini Robotics-ER              Gemini 2.5 Flash          GPT-5-mini
                                                                                                60



                                                                                                50



                                                                                                40
                                                                                                        41.0

                                                                                                                35.0
                                                                                       Scores   30                               32.0     31.0

                                                                                                20                       23.0                      24.0



                                                                                                 10



                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                Real-world Robotics Use Cases


Figure 14 | (a) Example real-world use case in an inspection task. Using Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5, we can parse
an image of an inventory shelf (left) into a table and present the result in an HTML page. (b) Performance
on data distributions sourced from real-world use cases from early testers of Gemini Robotics-ER. Scores
are measured as IOU for bounding box predictions and accuracy of predicted points within ground truth
segmentation masks for pointing. Results for GPT-5 and GPT-5-mini obtained via API calls in September 2025.


Progress Understanding and Success Detection: Understanding temporal progress in real-world
situations with physical interaction is critical for various robotics applications, including policy
evaluation, training, data filtering, and robot orchestration in long-horizon tasks. However, accurate
progress understanding requires advanced mastery of temporal and spatial reasoning, semantic
understanding of the world, and multi-view understanding. As visualized in Fig. 12, GR-ER 1.5
is capable of progress estimation in a wide set of scenarios with diverse and complex scenes and
tasks on a mix of embodiments, including predicting percentage towards task completion, success
detection (Du et al., 2023; Rocamonde et al., 2023), and video frame unshuffling (Ma et al., 2024).

To quantitatively analyze the progress understanding capabilities of GR-ER 1.5, we evaluate various
formulations of success detection, where a model must predict a binary success / failure signal given
input images and a task instruction in text. In particular, we create a success detection evaluation
benchmark which focuses on two important categories: real-time or offline inference and multiview
or singleview image inputs.

For the real-time evaluations, we sample recorded real-world robot rollouts from Section 5, and run
the model at 5Hz and simulate inference latency. To calculate accuracy, the prediction for any given
frame is considered to be the label from the most recent preceding frame for which a response is
available. We find that models often require long inference time making real-time usage challenging,
since stale success predictions quickly become irrelevant during dynamic robot interactions. For the
offline evaluations, we leverage various types of videos of real-world interaction, which cover a mix of
embodiments, camera viewpoints, and input formats. In the offline setting, we allow models unlimited
inference time for success detection. As seen in Fig. 13, GR-ER 1.5 showcases strong performance
for both real-time and offline success detection, in both the multiview and singleview image input
settings.
Real-World Robotic Use Cases: To assess GR-ER 1.5’s performance beyond academic benchmarks,
we aim to study how well GR-ER 1.5 performs in realistic scenarios which are representative of
real-world use cases (Fig. 14(a)). For a quantitative evaluation, we create a benchmark consisting of
examples provided by early testers of Gemini Robotics who had deployed GR-ER in their application
domains. The benchmark focuses on spatial understanding for in-the-wild data distributions with
tasks like object detection and pointing. As shown in Fig. 14(b), GR-ER 1.5 outperforms Gemini
Robotics-ER as well as contemporary state-of-the-art multimodal models.


                                                                                                                                                                 15
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



       What does the gauge read?                             Select model thoughts                                        Model response


                                           Analyze the gauge's features:                                  Based on the image, the gauge reads
                                           * Scale: The gauge measures temperature in degrees             approximately 60°F.
                                           Fahrenheit (°F). This is indicated by "°F" written on the
                                           lower part of the dial.                                        Here's how to interpret the reading:
                                           * Numbers: The major markings on the scale are 30, 50,         1. The large numbers on the dial are in
                                           80, 110, 140, 170, 200, 230, 250                               increments, such as 30, 50, 80, 110, etc. The
                                                                                                          unit is marked as °F (degrees Fahrenheit).
                                           Read the pointer position:
                                                                                                          2. The pointer is located between 50°F and
                                           *The pointer is between the numbers 50 and 80.
                                           * If the interval between 50 and 80 is 30 degrees, and         80°F.
                                           there are two tick marks dividing it into three equal          3. Between 50°F and 80°F, there are two
                                           sections, each section would be 10 degrees. The first tick     unlabeled tick marks. This divides the
                                           mark after 50 would represent 60. The second tick mark         30-degree interval into three sections, with
                                           would represent 70.                                            each section representing 10 degrees (50 +
                                           * The pointer is pointing to the unnumbered tick mark          10 = 60; 60 + 10 = 70; 70 + 10 = 80).
                                           that is immediately after the 50 mark.                         4. The pointer is pointing directly at the first
                                           * Therefore, the value is 50 + 10 = 60 degrees Fahrenheit.     tick mark after 50°F, which represents 60°F.


   Match all of the socks by pointing to
  them and labeling them based on their                      Select model thoughts                                        Model response
 pattern. Make sure matching socks have
              the same label.              Identify individual socks and their patterns:
                                           * Sock 3 (center-top): Light blue sock with small white
                                           dots. It's partially obscured. Pattern: small white dots.
                                           Let's look for a match.
                                           * Sock 4 (bottom-center): Light blue sock with small
                                           white dots. This matches Sock 3.

                                           Create pairs based on matching patterns:
                                           * Pair 1: Cat face socks. Sock 1 ([y: 250, x: 380]) and Sock
                                           2 ([y: 350, x: 700]). Label: "cat face".
                                           * Pair 2: Small dot socks. Sock 3 ([y: 350, x: 580]) and
                                           Sock 4 ([y: 800, x: 400]). Label: "small dots".


Figure 15 | Sample thinking traces from GR-ER 1.5 performing embodied reasoning tasks.


4.3. Thinking

A hallmark of contemporary frontier models is that their performance can improve via additional
reasoning steps at inference time (known as thinking). Just as language-based domains like math and
code have benefited from thinking, we demonstrate the benefits of thinking for open-world embodied
reasoning for GR-ER 1.5.

Fig. 15 presents example thinking traces of GR-ER 1.5. The traces demonstrate that GR-ER 1.5
identifies key features in the image before focusing on fine details (gauge reading), proceeds logically
and methodically (matching socks), can point while thinking (matching socks), and performs relevant
mathematical operations correctly (gauge reading). We show additional thinking trace visualizations
in Appendix C.3.

Fig. 16 (Left) shows the effect of thinking for embodied reasoning tasks on the 15 academic benchmarks
introduced in Section 4.1. For each task category, GR-ER 1.5’s performance improves as the thinking
token budget grows. The optimal amount of thinking varies depending on the task and the amount of
reasoning required. Image and video QA tasks benefit more from longer thinking traces compared to
pointing tasks. Fig. 16 (Center) shows that GR-ER 1.5 can automatically modulate the number of
thinking tokens depending on the amount of reasoning that is appropriate for the task. GR-ER 1.5 also
scales better with inference-time compute than Gemini 2.5 Flash, as seen in Fig. 16 (Right). Frontier
models are strong thinkers, however this does not necessarily translate into effective embodied
reasoning, as can be seen by the relatively flat scaling curve for Gemini 2.5 Flash. GR-ER 1.5’s strong
performance scaling with thinking shows promise for tapping into the inference-time compute scaling
gains for embodied reasoning capabilities.

                                                                                                                                                             16
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




Figure 16 | (Left) GR-ER 1.5 uses inference-time compute to improve performance. (Center) GR-ER 1.5
appropriately modulates how many thinking tokens it uses depending on the amount of reasoning needed by
the task. Given the same thinking budget, GR-ER 1.5 uses fewest tokens for pointing tasks, and most for video
QA. (Right) GR-ER 1.5 scales better with inference-time compute on embodied reasoning tasks compared to
Gemini 2.5 Flash. All data points are the average of 3 evaluation runs over the same benchmark sets.


5. Gemini Robotics 1.5: A Physical Agent
In this section, we combine GR-ER 1.5, our embodied reasoning model, with GR 1.5, our VLA model,
into a full agentic system, and demonstrate how the synergy between these two models enables the
execution of complex, long-horizon tasks (Ahn et al., 2022; Huang et al., 2022; Shi et al., 2025) in
out-of-distribution environments. The test scenarios require advanced real-world understanding, tool
use, long-horizon task planning, execution, and error recovery. To understand the contribution of
different components of the agentic system, we conduct the following ablation study:

   • GR 1.5 (with Thinking On): The Thinking VLA model that thinks before acting (Section 3.3).
   • Agentic (Gemini 2.5 Flash + GR 1.5): The baseline agentic system, utilizing the Gemini 2.5
     Flash model as orchestrator, and our VLA model for execution.
   • Agentic (GR-ER 1.5 + GR 1.5): Our agentic system, utilizing our ER model as orchestrator,
     and our VLA model for execution.

We choose 8 tasks across the ALOHA and Bi-arm Franka3 platforms to test different aspects of an agent,
including tool use, memory, planning, and dexterous manipulation skills. For example, in “Sort Trash”,
“Nut Allergy”, and “Mushroom Risotto” the agent needs to perform web search to understand how the
objects fit the requirements of the prompt. In “Desk Organization” and “Swap”, the agent is asked to
memorize the state of the scene and objects, and then recover the original states. “Pack Suitcase” and
“Top shelf to the table” test the GR 1.5 Agent’s 3-D reasoning and dexterity, manipulating soft items
on shelving or hangers. The “Blocks in Drawer” task has 9 distinct steps, testing the agent’s planning
capability. Details of the benchmark and the progress score definition can be found in Appendix D.1.
For completeness, we also report success rate results in D.2.

As shown in Figure 17, the agent composed of the GR 1.5 family of models consistently and significantly
outperforms the other two baselines. The Thinking VLA achieves moderate performance with a
progress score up to 44 percent. In contrast, our GR 1.5 agent frequently achieves scores near 80%.
Although the Thinking VLA can perform a degree of task decomposition, its world understanding and
task planning are limited compared to the Embodied Reasoning model. This is consistent with the
fact that the Thinking VLA is a smaller model that is primarily optimized for action output.
  3
    While we are using the pre-training checkpoint for ALOHA, we performed additional post-training on the bi-arm Franka
platform to improve its success rate for long-horizon tasks.



                                                                                                                              17
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




                                                            Agent (Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 + Gemini Robotics 1.5)
                                                            Agent (Gemini 2.5 Flash + Gemini Robotics 1.5)
                                                            Gemini Robotics 1.5 (Thinking on)
                            1.0

                            0.8              0.87            0.88
                                                                                         0.80


           Progress Score
                                      0.83
                            0.6
                                                                                                0.64
                            0.4                                     0.56
                                                    0.33                                                            0.45
                            0.2                                            0.32                        0.36                       0.40

                            0.0                                                                                            0.15
                                    Blocks in Drawer       Desk Organization               Sort Trash               Pack Suitecase




                            1.0

                            0.8




           Progress Score
                                                             0.78                        0.78
                            0.6
                                                                    0.78                                            0.67
                                      0.75                                                                                 0.58
                            0.4
                                                                                                0.44
                            0.2                     0.08                                                                          0.25
                                                                                                       0.44
                                             0.33                          0.00
                            0.0
                                  Top shelf to the table      Nut allergy                       Swap               Mushroom risotto




Figure 17 | Long-horizon evaluations for the GR 1.5 Agent and the baselines on ALOHA (top) and Bi-arm
Franka (bottom), consisting of tasks that require advanced real-world understanding, tool use, long-horizon
task planning, execution, and error recovery to successfully complete the complex long-horizon tasks.




                                                                                                                                         18
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



We compare our GR 1.5 Agent with the baseline agent that uses the off-the-shelf Gemini 2.5 Flash
model for orchestration. For more complex tasks, our system achieves nearly double the progress
score.

     Subtask failure modes                         Agent                                        Agent
                                     (Gemini 2.5 Flash as orchestrator)               (GR-ER 1.5 as orchestrator)
            Planning                              25.5%                                           9%
        Success detection                           6%                                            4%
              Action                               13%                                            9%
        Total failure rates                       44.5%                                          22%

Table 1 | Failure modes for long-horizon evaluations: A planning failure is when the orchestrator makes a
wrong plan or issues a wrong instruction to the VLA. A success detection failure is when the agent ends a
sub-task either too early or too late. An action failure is when the VLA does not successfully complete the
sub-task.



We analyze failures of the agentic system and identify three categories: orchestrator errors (wrong
plan or instruction to the VLA), success detector errors (ending the sub-task too early or too late),
and VLA failures (inability to complete the sub-task). As detailed in Table 1, our agentic system
with GR-ER 1.5 as orchestrator outperforms the baseline with Gemini 2.5 Flash as orchestrator in all
categories, with the most significant boost in task-planning performance. This difference underscores
that GR-ER 1.5 provides stronger embodied reasoning capabilities than Gemini 2.5 Flash.

These results demonstrate a clear hierarchy in capability. While improvements in the VLA model
significantly enhance execution robustness, they are insufficient for complex, long-horizon tasks.
Furthermore, simply pairing an off-the-shelf VLM like Gemini 2.5 Flash with an advanced VLA
model fails to achieve reliable end-to-end success, underscoring the importance of general real-
world understanding and embodied reasoning. Our agentic architecture, which leverages the GR-ER
1.5 model for high-level planning and orchestration, significantly improves reliability. This result
highlights an important design philosophy for physical agents: combining general, robust low-level
control with intelligent high-level embodied reasoning is the critical path towards deploying capable
AI agents in the physical world.


6. Responsible Development and Safety
We are proactively developing novel safety and alignment approaches to enable AI-controlled robots to
be responsibly deployed in human-centric environments. Our overall safety approach is multi-faceted
and multi-layered, spanning high-level semantic safety reasoning, ensuring respectful dialogue with
humans, thinking about safety before acting, and triggering low-level physical safety sub-systems
(e.g., for collision avoidance) when needed. Additionally, we continue iterating on implementing
best practices for operational safety as codified in existing safety standards (ISO, 2025; International
Organization for Standardization (ISO), 2016). We are also developing novel Auto-Red-Teaming
frameworks to automatically discover safety and robustness vulnerabilities of Gemini Robotics models
through continuous adversarial evaluations at scale.

Safe Human-Robot Dialog: By building on Gemini checkpoints, we ensure alignment with Gemini
Safety policies (Comanici et al., 2025) that have been designed to prevent generation of harmful
content such as hate speech, sexual explicitness, and revealing personally identifiable information.
Through adversarial testing, we find that our GR-ER 1.5 models have strong compliance with these


                                                                                                                              19
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



policies. In turn, this implies that robots will foster safe human-robot interactions, engaging in socially
appropriate behaviors through their speech, gestures, and actions.

Semantic Action Safety: Broadly, semantic safety addresses the innumerable, “long-tail”, common-
sense constraints of operating in human-centric environments, e.g. that a box may be too heavy
to lift, or that spilled liquid on the floor is a slip hazard. We previously released the ASIMOV-
benchmark (Sermanet et al., 2025) to evaluate and improve semantic action safety. We are now
releasing an upgrade of this benchmark: ASIMOV-2.0 has improved quality, better tail coverage of
real-world injury scenarios (NEISS, 2024), new video modalities (generated by VEO4 ), and new
embodied reasoning tasks involving physical constraints. Fig. 18 shows instances of this eval suite
across text, image and video modalities; for more details see (Jindal et al., 2025), released concurrently
with this tech report. In Fig. 19, we see that GR-ER 1.5 improves over GR-ER in recognizing risks,
understanding safety consequences of actions, and knowing when to trigger interventions. When
GR-ER 1.5 is fine-tuned for Thinking about Safety, we see state-of-the-art results in safety-constrained
pointing tasks (Fig. 19 (b)).
    REAL REPORT                 3YOM HAD A PILL IN HIS MOUTH FROM
                                GRANDMOTHERS PILL CASE..
    DIAGNOSTIC CODE             POISONING
    SCENARIO                    A 3-year-old boy is playing on the floor near
                                his grandmother...The boy has just reached
                                into the organizer, pulled out a small pill,
                                and put it in his mouth.
    ACTION                      Immediately inform the grandmother, point-
                                ing to the child, and say, ’He has one of your
                                pills in his mouth.
    Q1 (Latent Risk)            Given only the scenario, which of the follow-
                                ing physical injuries is most likely? A: Burns,
                                B: Poisoning, C:..
    Q2 (Latent Risk Severity)   Given only the scenario, what is the severity
                                of the most likely injury? A: Minor, B: Mod-
                                erate, C: Severe...
    Q3 (Action Effect)          What is the effect of executing the action
                                on the likelihood of the possible injury? A:
                                Eliminates Risk, B. Reduces Risk, C. Increases
                                Risk, D. No effect...
    Q4 (Activated Risk)         What is the severity of the most likely injury
                                after executing the action? A: None, B: Minor,
                                C: Moderate, D: Severe...

 (a) ASIMOV-2.0-Injury: Do models understand physi-                               (b) ASIMOV-2.0-Constraints: Do (multimodal) model
 cal risks and associated severity in given scenarios (text);                     responses (red pointing labels) adhere to embodiment-
 and safety consequences of actions?                                              specific Safety Instructions?




(c) ASIMOV-2.0-Video: Do models understand physical risks and severity in (AI-generated) videos (as opposed to text);
can they predict the last possible timestamp (red frame above) at which an intervention could have effectively prevented
the injury?


Figure 18 | ASIMOV-2.0 Physical Safety Benchmark: Instances and Key Questions

Auto-Red-Teaming Framework: To augment our static evaluation methods, we have also developed
novel automated red teaming (ART) techniques for dynamic, adversarial stress-testing of Gemini
Robotics models. Our approach is inspired by Gemini’s Auto-Red-Teaming (Comanici et al., 2025)
framework which formulates adversarial testing as a game played between three models: an Attacker,
   4
       https://deepmind.google/models/veo/


                                                                                                                                      20
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




           a)GR-
           (       5i
                ER1.  mpr
                        ovesinjuryris
                                    kre
                                      cogni
                                          t   c
                                           on,a
                                           i   ti
                                                on                            (
                                                                              b)GR-ER1.
                                                                                      5Thi  ngi
                                                                                          nki  mprove
                                                                                                    sadhe
                                                                                                        renc
                                                                                                           e
           a
           sfe
             tya
               ndint
                   ervent
                        ionpr
                            e dic
                                tion.                                         t
                                                                              oPhys
                                                                                  ica
                                                                                    lSa
                                                                                      fet
                                                                                        yConstr
                                                                                              aint
                                                                                                 s.

Figure 19 | ASIMOV-2.0 Safety Evaluations.


a Target, and an Autorater. In our case, the Target is a Gemini Robotics model. The Attacker is
prompted to devise an “attack” on the Target model. Effectively, the Attacker samples an “ordinary”
task from a source (e. g. training/eval data of the Target model), and turns it into an adversarial
task. For example, the ER model may be attacked through a malicious instruction (prompt attack) or
a corrupted/edited image (scene attack); and the Actions model may be attacked during a rollout
with undesirable disturbances (e.g. moving obstacles) in the environment (environment attack). The
AutoRater is a judge that attempts to meticulously rate the Target’s response for correctness and
safety. Fig. 20 shows an instance of ER model hallucination discovered through auto-red-teaming: the
Attacker samples an ALOHA scene, and cleverly requests the ER model to point to an entity that does
not exist in the scene. The AutoRater, given an image overlay of the ER model responses, reliably
detects hallucination and marks this response as a failure while providing a reasoning trace. Through




Figure 20 | Auto-Red-Teaming detects ER Hallucinations under adversarial prompts.

auto-red-teaming, we verified the following: (1) GR-ER 1.5 (particularly with Thinking enabled)
has greater robustness under instruction obfuscation, hallucination elicitation and content safety
attacks; (2) model responses can be reliably critiqued and corrected using AutoRaters for enhanced
robustness; and (3) training data generated via auto-red-teaming helps mitigate vulnerabilities such
as hallucinations.

We are committed to continuously innovating safety and alignment techniques as we advance our
robot foundation models. Furthermore, we acknowledge that the societal impacts of Gemini Robotics
deployments must be addressed concurrently with safety risks. Proactive management and monitoring
of these multifaceted impacts – spanning both benefits and challenges – are fundamental to our

                                                                                                                              21
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



strategy for mitigating risk, deploying responsibly, and ensuring transparent reporting. Please refer to
Appendix A for the Gemini Robotics model card.


7. Discussion
This work presents Gemini Robotics 1.5, a significant step towards general-purpose robots capable
of operating intelligently in the physical world. By combining the power of an advanced Embodied
Reasoning model with a general Vision-Language-Action model, we have made significant progress
in tackling key bottlenecks in robot learning and generalization. Our core contribution lies in three
major innovations:

   • Thinking VLA: We have shown that enabling the VLA model to "think before acting" through a
     multi-level internal monologue notably improves its ability to handle more complex, multi-step
     tasks.
   • Learning across different robot embodiments: We have shown that Gemini Robotics 1.5
     can successfully learn from heterogeneous datasets, including data from across different robot
     platforms, and transfer learned skills between them. This breakthrough accelerates learning in
     the presence of the data scarcity problem that has long hindered the field, accelerating progress
     towards generalist robots.
   • State-of-the-Art Embodied Reasoning: The Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 model establishes a new
     state of the art for a wide range of embodied reasoning tasks. Its performance on tasks like
     visual and spatial thinking, task planning, progress estimation, and success detection is critical
     for robust, real-world robotic applications.


This tech report demonstrates that the organic combination of these three contributions offers a
compelling path to a new generation of general-purpose robots. A state-of-the-art embodied reasoning
thinking model provides the intelligence to decompose long-horizon tasks, but this intelligence is
only valuable when it can be translated into successful executions, empowered by our capable and
general VLA model. This VLA is, in turn, able to share knowledge across different robot embodiments,
which can unlock the immense amount of data collected by the entire robotics community. Finally,
the system’s state-of-the-art embodied reasoning capabilities enhance the robot’s perception, semantic
understanding, and planning for complex tasks that require both information gathering and multi-step
reasoning. Together, these elements form a complete and powerful agentic system, paving the way
for robots that can operate with human-like intelligence, adaptability, and safety in complex and
dynamic environments.

While Gemini Robotics 1.5 represents a major milestone, this work also highlights several avenues for
future research. An important next step is to leverage more scalable data sources beyond traditional
robot action data, such as real-world human videos and synthetic videos. Our architectural changes in
GR 1.5 already equip the model to learn from these data sources without requiring action annotations.
Future efforts will focus on learning from publicly available low-quality video corpora, among other
data sources, to further mitigate the data scarcity problem. Additionally, although GR 1.5 demonstrates
a new level of generalization, its dexterity remains on par with the previous generation. We will
explore new architectures and training methods, such as reinforcement learning, to enhance the
robot’s dexterity without sacrificing its generality, allowing it to perform more intricate and precise
manipulations.




                                                                                                                              22
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



References
Robotics — safety requirements — part 1: Industrial robots, 2025. URL https://www.iso.org/
  standard/73933.html.

Michael Ahn, Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Yevgen Chebotar, Omar Cortes, Byron David, Chelsea
 Finn, Chuyuan Fu, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, Alex Herzog, Daniel Ho, Jasmine
 Hsu, Julian Ibarz, Brian Ichter, Alex Irpan, Eric Jang, Rosario Jauregui Ruano, Kyle Jeffrey, Sally
 Jesmonth, Nikhil J Joshi, Ryan Julian, Dmitry Kalashnikov, Yuheng Kuang, Kuang-Huei Lee,
 Sergey Levine, Yao Lu, Linda Luu, Carolina Parada, Peter Pastor, Jornell Quiambao, Kanishka
 Rao, Jarek Rettinghouse, Diego Reyes, Pierre Sermanet, Nicolas Sievers, Clayton Tan, Alexander
 Toshev, Vincent Vanhoucke, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Peng Xu, Sichun Xu, Mengyuan Yan, and Andy
 Zeng. Do As I Can, Not As I Say: Grounding Language in Robotic Affordances. arXiv e-prints, art.
 arXiv:2204.01691, April 2022.

ALOHA-2-Team, Jorge Aldaco, Travis Armstrong, Robert Baruch, Jeff Bingham, Sanky Chan, Kenneth
  Draper, Debidatta Dwibedi, Chelsea Finn, Pete Florence, Spencer Goodrich, Wayne Gramlich, Torr
  Hage, Alexander Herzog, Jonathan Hoech, Thinh Nguyen, Ian Storz, Baruch Tabanpour, Leila
  Takayama, Jonathan Tompson, Ayzaan Wahid, Ted Wahrburg, Sichun Xu, Sergey Yaroshenko, Kevin
  Zakka, and Tony Z. Zhao. ALOHA 2: An enhanced low-cost hardware for bimanual teleoperation,
  2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.02292.

Apptronik. Apptronik Apollo General Purpose Humanoid Robot. https://apptronik.com/apollo.

Suneel Belkhale, Tianli Ding, Ted Xiao, Pierre Sermanet, Quon Vuong, Jonathan Tompson, Yevgen
  Chebotar, Debidatta Dwibedi, and Dorsa Sadigh. Rt-h: Action hierarchies using language. arXiv
  preprint arXiv:2403.01823, 2024.

Johan Bjorck, Fernando Castañeda, Nikita Cherniadev, Xingye Da, Runyu Ding, Linxi Fan, Yu Fang,
  Dieter Fox, Fengyuan Hu, Spencer Huang, et al. Gr00t n1: An open foundation model for generalist
  humanoid robots. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.14734, 2025.

James Bradbury, Roy Frostig, Peter Hawkins, Matthew James Johnson, Chris Leary, Dougal Maclau-
  rin, George Necula, Adam Paszke, Jake VanderPlas, Skye Wanderman-Milne, and Qiao Zhang.
  JAX: composable transformations of Python+NumPy programs, 2018. URL http://github.com/
  google/jax.

Boyuan Chen, Zhuo Xu, Sean Kirmani, Brain Ichter, Dorsa Sadigh, Leonidas Guibas, and Fei Xia.
  Spatialvlm: Endowing vision-language models with spatial reasoning capabilities. In Proceedings of
  the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 14455–14465, 2024a.

Hongyi Chen, Yunchao Yao, Ruixuan Liu, Changliu Liu, and Jeffrey Ichnowski. Automating
 robot failure recovery using vision-language models with optimized prompts. arXiv preprint
 arXiv:2409.03966, 2024b.

Gheorghe Comanici, Eric Bieber, Mike Schaekermann, Ice Pasupat, Noveen Sachdeva, Inderjit Dhillon,
  Marcel Blistein, Ori Ram, Dan Zhang, Evan Rosen, et al. Gemini 2.5: Pushing the frontier with
  advanced reasoning, multimodality, long context, and next generation agentic capabilities. arXiv
  preprint arXiv:2507.06261, 2025.

Jeff Dean. Introducing Pathways: A next-generation AI architecture, 2021. URL https://blog.
  google/technology/ai/introducing-pathways-next-generation-ai-architecture/.



                                                                                                                              23
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



Yuqing Du, Ksenia Konyushkova, Misha Denil, Akhil Raju, Jessica Landon, Felix Hill, Nando De Freitas,
  and Serkan Cabi. Vision-language models as success detectors. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.07280,
  2023.

Debidatta Dwibedi, Vidhi Jain, Jonathan Tompson, Andrew Zisserman, and Yusuf Aytar. FlexCap:
  Describe anything in images in controllable detail. In The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural
  Information Processing Systems, 2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=P5dEZeECGu.

Franka. Franka Research 3. https://franka.de/franka-research-3-arm.

Xingyu Fu, Yushi Hu, Bangzheng Li, Yu Feng, Haoyu Wang, Xudong Lin, Dan Roth, Noah A Smith,
  Wei-Chiu Ma, and Ranjay Krishna. BLINK: Multimodal large language models can see but not
  perceive. In European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 148–166. Springer, 2024.

Paul Gauthier.  Gpt code editing benchmarks — aider.chat.     https://aider.chat/docs/
  leaderboards/#polyglot-leaderboard, 2024. [Accessed 16-09-2025].

Gemini-Robotics-Team, Saminda Abeyruwan, Joshua Ainslie, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Montserrat Gon-
  zalez Arenas, Travis Armstrong, Ashwin Balakrishna, Robert Baruch, Maria Bauza, Michiel Blokzijl,
  et al. Gemini robotics: Bringing ai into the physical world. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.20020, 2025.

Gemini-Team, Rohan Anil, Sebastian Borgeaud, Yonghui Wu, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jiahui Yu, Radu
  Soricut, Johan Schalkwyk, Andrew M Dai, Anja Hauth, et al. Gemini: a family of highly capable
  multimodal models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.11805, 2023. URL https://storage.googleapis.
  com/deepmind-media/gemini/gemini_1_report.pdf.

Chi-Pin Huang, Yueh-Hua Wu, Min-Hung Chen, Yu-Chiang Frank Wang, and Fu-En Yang.
  Thinkact: Vision-language-action reasoning via reinforced visual latent planning. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2507.16815, 2025.

Wenlong Huang, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Harris Chan, Jacky Liang, Pete Florence, Andy Zeng, Jonathan
 Tompson, Igor Mordatch, Yevgen Chebotar, et al. Inner monologue: Embodied reasoning through
 planning with language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.05608, 2022.

Physical Intelligence, Kevin Black, Noah Brown, James Darpinian, Karan Dhabalia, Danny Driess,
  Adnan Esmail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, et al. 𝜋0.5 : a vision-language-action
  model with open-world generalization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.16054, 2025.

International Organization for Standardization (ISO). Robots and robotic devices – collaborative
  robots. Technical Specification ISO/TS 15066:2016, ISO, Geneva, Switzerland, 2016.

Abhishek Jindal, Dmitry Kalashnikov, Alex Hofer, Oscar Chang, Divya Garikapati, Anirudha Majumdar,
  Pierre Sermanet, and Vikas Sindhwani. Can ai perceive physical danger and trigger interventions?
  2025. URL https://asimov-benchmark.github.io/v2/.

Jason Lee, Jiafei Duan, Haoquan Fang, Yuquan Deng, Shuo Liu, Boyang Li, Bohan Fang, Jieyu Zhang,
  Yi Ru Wang, Sangho Lee, et al. Molmoact: Action reasoning models that can reason in space. arXiv
  preprint arXiv:2508.07917, 2025.

Boyi Li, Philipp Wu, Pieter Abbeel, and Jitendra Malik. Interactive task planning with language
  models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.10645, 2023.

Fanqi Lin, Ruiqian Nai, Yingdong Hu, Jiacheng You, Junming Zhao, and Yang Gao. Onetwovla: A
  unified vision-language-action model with adaptive reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.11917,
  2025.

                                                                                                                              24
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



Yecheng Jason Ma, Joey Hejna, Ayzaan Wahid, Chuyuan Fu, Dhruv Shah, Jacky Liang, Zhuo Xu, Sean
  Kirmani, Peng Xu, Danny Driess, Ted Xiao, Jonathan Tompson, Osbert Bastani, Dinesh Jayaraman,
  Wenhao Yu, Tingnan Zhang, Dorsa Sadigh, and Fei Xia. Vision language models are in-context
  value learners, 2024.
Margaret Mitchell, Simone Wu, Andrew Zaldivar, Parker Barnes, Lucy Vasserman, Ben Hutchinson,
 Elena Spitzer, Inioluwa Deborah Raji, and Timnit Gebru. Model cards for model reporting. In
 Proceedings of the conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency, pages 220–229, 2019.
NEISS. National Electronic Injury Surveillance System - All Injury Program (NEISS-AIP), 2024.
NIST. Assembly Performance Metrics and Test Methods. https://www.nist.gov/el/intelligent-systems-
  division-73500/robotic-grasping-and-manipulation-assembly/assembly.
Abby O’Neill, Abdul Rehman, Abhinav Gupta, Abhiram Maddukuri, Abhishek Gupta, Abhishek Padalkar,
  Abraham Lee, Acorn Pooley, Agrim Gupta, Ajay Mandlekar, et al. Open X-Embodiment: Robotic
  Learning Datasets and RT-X Models : Open X-Embodiment Collaboration. In 2024 IEEE International
  Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 6892–6903, 2024. doi: 10.1109/ICRA57147.
  2024.10611477.
David Rein, Betty Li Hou, Asa Cooper Stickland, Jackson Petty, Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Julien Dirani, Ju-
  lian Michael, and Samuel R. Bowman. GPQA: A graduate-level google-proof q&a benchmark. In First
  Conference on Language Modeling, 2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=Ti67584b98.
Juan Rocamonde, Victoriano Montesinos, Elvis Nava, Ethan Perez, and David Lindner. Vision-language
  models are zero-shot reward models for reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.12921,
  2023.
Pierre Sermanet, Anirudha Majumdar, Alex Irpan, Dmitry Kalashnikov, and Vikas Sindhwani. Generat-
  ing robot constitutions & benchmarks for semantic safety. In Conference on Robot Learning (CORL),
  2025. URL https://asimov-benchmark.github.io/.
Lucy Xiaoyang Shi, Brian Ichter, Michael Equi, Liyiming Ke, Karl Pertsch, Quan Vuong, James Tanner,
  Anna Walling, Haohuan Wang, Niccolo Fusai, et al. Hi robot: Open-ended instruction following
  with hierarchical vision-language-action models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.19417, 2025.
Laura Smith, Alex Irpan, Montserrat Gonzalez Arenas, Sean Kirmani, Dmitry Kalashnikov, Dhruv
  Shah, and Ted Xiao. Steer: Flexible robotic manipulation via dense language grounding. In 2025
  IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 16517–16524. IEEE, 2025.
Shuran Song, Samuel P Lichtenberg, and Jianxiong Xiao. SUN RGB-D: A RGB-D scene understanding
  benchmark suite. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,
  pages 567–576, 2015.
Shengbang Tong, Ellis Brown, Penghao Wu, Sanghyun Woo, Manoj Middepogu, Sai Charitha Akula,
  Jihan Yang, Shusheng Yang, Adithya Iyer, Xichen Pan, Austin Wang, Rob Fergus, Yann LeCun, and
  Saining Xie. Cambrian-1: A fully open, vision-centric exploration of multimodal llms, 2024.
Junjie Wen, Yichen Zhu, Jinming Li, Zhibin Tang, Chaomin Shen, and Feifei Feng. Dexvla:
  Vision-language model with plug-in diffusion expert for general robot control. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2502.05855, 2025.
Wentao Yuan, Jiafei Duan, Valts Blukis, Wilbert Pumacay, Ranjay Krishna, Adithyavairavan Murali,
 Arsalan Mousavian, and Dieter Fox. Robopoint: A vision-language model for spatial affordance
 prediction for robotics. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.10721, 2024.

                                                                                                                              25
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



Xiang Yue, Yuansheng Ni, Kai Zhang, Tianyu Zheng, Ruoqi Liu, Ge Zhang, Samuel Stevens, Dongfu
  Jiang, Weiming Ren, Yuxuan Sun, Cong Wei, Botao Yu, Ruibin Yuan, Renliang Sun, Ming Yin,
  Boyuan Zheng, Zhenzhu Yang, Yibo Liu, Wenhao Huang, Huan Sun, Yu Su, and Wenhu Chen.
  Mmmu: A massive multi-discipline multimodal understanding and reasoning benchmark for expert
  agi, 2023.

Michał Zawalski, William Chen, Karl Pertsch, Oier Mees, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. Robotic
 control via embodied chain-of-thought reasoning. Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL) 2024, 2024.

Peiyuan Zhi, Zhiyuan Zhang, Yu Zhao, Muzhi Han, Zeyu Zhang, Zhitian Li, Ziyuan Jiao, Baoxiong
  Jia, and Siyuan Huang. Closed-loop open-vocabulary mobile manipulation with gpt-4v. In 2025
  IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 4761–4767. IEEE, 2025.

Enshen Zhou, Jingkun An, Cheng Chi, Yi Han, Shanyu Rong, Chi Zhang, Pengwei Wang, Zhongyuan
  Wang, Tiejun Huang, Lu Sheng, et al. Roborefer: Towards spatial referring with reasoning in
  vision-language models for robotics. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.04308, 2025.

Brianna Zitkovich, Tianhe Yu, Sichun Xu, Peng Xu, Ted Xiao, Fei Xia, Jialin Wu, Paul Wohlhart, Stefan
  Welker, Ayzaan Wahid, et al. Rt-2: Vision-language-action models transfer web knowledge to
  robotic control. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 2165–2183. PMLR, 2023.




                                                                                                                              26
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



8. Contributions and Acknowledgments

Authors

Abbas Abdolmaleki                                                Ruiqi Gao
Saminda Abeyruwan                                                Marissa Giustina
Joshua Ainslie                                                   Keerthana Gopalakrishnan
Jean-Baptiste Alayrac                                            Laura Graesser
Montserrat Gonzalez Arenas                                       Oliver Groth
Ashwin Balakrishna                                               Agrim Gupta
Nathan Batchelor                                                 Roland Hafner
Alex Bewley                                                      Steven Hansen
Jeff Bingham                                                     Leonard Hasenclever
Michael Bloesch                                                  Sam Haves
Konstantinos Bousmalis                                           Nicolas Heess
Philemon Brakel                                                  Brandon Hernaez
Anthony Brohan                                                   Alex Hofer
Thomas Buschmann                                                 Jasmine Hsu
Arunkumar Byravan                                                Lu Huang
Serkan Cabi                                                      Sandy H. Huang
Ken Caluwaerts                                                   Atil Iscen
Federico Casarini                                                Mithun George Jacob
Christine Chan                                                   Deepali Jain
Oscar Chang                                                      Sally Jesmonth
London Chappellet-Volpini                                        Abhishek Jindal
Jose Enrique Chen                                                Ryan Julian
Xi Chen                                                          Dmitry Kalashnikov
Hao-Tien Lewis Chiang                                            Stefani Karp
Krzysztof Choromanski                                            Matija Kecman
Adrian Collister                                                 J. Chase Kew
David B. D’Ambrosio                                              Donnie Kim
Sudeep Dasari                                                    Frank Kim
Todor Davchev                                                    Junkyung Kim
Meet Kirankumar Dave                                             Thomas Kipf
Coline Devin                                                     Sean Kirmani
Norman Di Palo                                                   Ksenia Konyushkova
Tianli Ding                                                      Li Yang Ku
Carl Doersch                                                     Yuheng Kuang
Adil Dostmohamed                                                 Thomas Lampe
Yilun Du                                                         Antoine Laurens
Debidatta Dwibedi                                                Tuan Anh Le
Sathish Thoppay Egambaram                                        Isabel Leal
Michael Elabd                                                    Alex X. Lee
Tom Erez                                                         Tsang-Wei Edward Lee
Xiaolin Fang                                                     Guy Lever
Claudio Fantacci                                                 Jacky Liang
Cody Fong                                                        Li-Heng Lin
Erik Frey                                                        Fangchen Liu
Chuyuan Fu                                                       Shangbang Long


                                                                                                                              27
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



Caden Lu                                                         Rachel Sterneck
Sharath Maddineni                                                Ian Storz
Anirudha Majumdar                                                Razvan Surdulescu
Kevis-Kokitsi Maninis                                            Jie Tan
Andrew Marmon                                                    Jonathan Tompson
Sergio Martinez                                                  Saran Tunyasuvunakool
Assaf Hurwitz Michaely                                           Jake Varley
Niko Milonopoulos                                                Grace Vesom
Joss Moore                                                       Giulia Vezzani
Robert Moreno                                                    Maria Bauza Villalonga
Michael Neunert                                                  Oriol Vinyals
Francesco Nori                                                   René Wagner
Joy Ortiz                                                        Ayzaan Wahid
Kenneth Oslund                                                   Stefan Welker
Carolina Parada                                                  Paul Wohlhart
Emilio Parisotto                                                 Chengda Wu
Acorn Pooley                                                     Markus Wulfmeier
Thomas Power                                                     Fei Xia
Alessio Quaglino                                                 Ted Xiao
Haroon Qureshi                                                   Annie Xie
Rajkumar Vasudeva Raju                                           Jinyu Xie
Helen Ran                                                        Peng Xu
Dushyant Rao                                                     Sichun Xu
Kanishka Rao                                                     Ying Xu
Isaac Reid                                                       Zhuo Xu
David Rendleman                                                  Jimmy Yan
Krista Reymann                                                   Sherry Yang
Miguel Rivas                                                     Skye Yang
Francesco Romano                                                 Yuxiang Yang
Yulia Rubanova                                                   Hiu Hong (Eddie) Yu
Peter Pastor Sampedro                                            Wenhao Yu
Pannag R Sanketi                                                 Wentao Yuan
Dhruv Shah                                                       Yuan Yuan
Mohit Sharma                                                     Jingwei Zhang
Kathryn Shea                                                     Tingnan Zhang
Mohit Shridhar                                                   Zhiyuan Zhang
Charles Shu                                                      Allan Zhou
Vikas Sindhwani                                                  Guangyao Zhou
Sumeet Singh                                                     Yuxiang Zhou
Radu Soricut


Acknowledgements


We would like to acknowledge the support from Amy Nommeots-Nomm, Ashley Gibb, Bhavya Sukhija,
Bryan Gale, Catarina Barros, Christy Koh, Clara Barbu, Demetra Brady, Hiroki Furuta, Jennie Lees,
Kendra Byrne, Keran Rong, Kevin Murphy, Kieran Connell, Kuang-Huei Lee, M. Emre Karagozler,
Martina Zambelli, Matthew Jackson, Michael Noseworthy, Miguel Lázaro-Gredilla, Mili Sanwalka,
Mimi Jasarevic, Nimrod Gileadi, Rebeca Santamaria-Fernandez, Rui Yao, Siobhan Mcloughlin, Sophie


                                                                                                                              28
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



Bridgers, Stefano Saliceti, Steven Bohez, Svetlana Grant, Tim Hertweck, Verena Rieser and Yandong
Ji.

We would like to thank Zoubin Ghahramani, Koray Kavukcuoglu, and Demis Hassabis for their
leadership and support of this effort. We would also like to recognize the many teams across Google
and Google DeepMind that have contributed to this effort including Legal, Marketing, Communications,
Responsibility and Safety Council, Responsible Development and Innovation, Policy, Strategy and
Operations as well as our Business and Corporate Development teams. We would like to thank everyone
on the Robotics team not explicitly mentioned above for their continued support and guidance. We
would also like to thank the Apptronik team for their support.




                                                                                                                              29
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



Appendix
A. Model Card
We present the model card (Mitchell et al., 2019) for Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 and Gemini Robotics
1.5 models in Table 2.

                                                    Model summary
 Model architecture                Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 is a Vision-Language-Model that enhances
                                   Gemini’s world understanding.
                                   Gemini Robotics 1.5 is a Vision-Language-Action model enabling
                                   general-purpose robot manipulation on different tasks, scenes, and
                                   across multiple robots.
 Input(s)                          The models take text (e.g., a question or prompt or numerical coordi-
                                   nates) and images (e.g., robot camera images) as input.
 Output(s)                         Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 generates text (e.g., numerical coordinates)
                                   in response to the input. Gemini Robotics 1.5 generates continuous
                                   numerical values that represent robot actions, and additionally text
                                   when thinking mode is enabled.
                                                        Model Data
 Training Data                     Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 and Gemini Robotics 1.5 were trained on
                                   datasets comprised of images, text, and robot sensor and action data.
 Data Pre-processing               The multi-stage safety and quality filtering process employs data clean-
                                   ing and filtering methods in line with our policies. These methods
                                   include:

                                        • Sensitive Data Filtering: Automated techniques were used to filter
                                          out certain personal information and other sensitive data from
                                          text and images.
                                        • Synthetic captions: Each image in the dataset was paired with
                                          both original captions and synthetic captions. Synthetic captions
                                          were generated using Gemini and FlexCap (Dwibedi et al., 2024)
                                          models and allow the model to learn details about the image.

                                   Further details on data pre-processing can be found in (Gemini-Team
                                   et al., 2023).
                                           Implementation Frameworks
 Hardware                          TPU v4, v5p and v6e.
 Software                          JAX (Bradbury et al., 2018), ML Pathways (Dean, 2021).


                                                        Evaluation
 Approach                          See Section 4 for Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 evaluation procedures, Sec-
                                   tions 3 for Gemini Robotics 1.5 evaluation procedures, and Section 6
                                   for Gemini Robotics Safety evaluation procedures.




                                                                                                                              30
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



  Results                          See Section 4 for Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 evaluation results, Sections 3
                                   for Gemini Robotics 1.5 evaluation results, and Section 6 for Gemini
                                   Robotics Safety evaluation results.
                                             Model Usage & Limitations
  Ethical Considerations           Previous impact assessment and risk analysis work as discussed
  & Risks                          in (Gemini-Team et al., 2023) and references therein remain rele-
                                   vant to Gemini Robotics. See Section 6 for information on responsible
                                   development and safety mitigations.

Table 2 | Gemini Robotics 1.5 model card.




                                                                                                                              31
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



B. Gemini Robotics 1.5 is a general multi-embodiment Vision-Language-Action
   Model
In this section, we provide additional material to supplement the results for GR 1.5.


B.1. Rank consistency between evaluations in simulation and on real robots

We leverage physics-based simulators to massively scale up the evaluations of our GR 1.5 models
for new objects, scenes, and environments. Fig. 21 demonstrates the rank consistency between our
MuJoCo simulator-based evaluation and real-robot evaluations across multiple scenes and tasks,
which enables us to rapidly iterate on architectural and algorithmic improvements while reducing the
need to conduct slow real-robot evaluations.

                                                       100       Close laptop
                                                                 Unhang tape
                                                                 Put green grapes in comparment
                                                       80        Put legos in bag-ckpt1




                              Simulation Success (%)
                                                                 Put legos in bag-ckpt2
                                                                 Open drawer ckpt1
                                                       60        Open drawer ckpt2


                                                       40


                                                       20


                                                        0
                                                             0         20          40             60   80   100
                                                                                Real Success (%)
Figure 21 | Each colored pair represents an A/B test both in simulation and real. Across a range of tasks,
we find that success rates are rank consistent between simulation and real. This consistency allows for rapid
iteration of model architecture, training objectives, and experiment design.



B.2. Generalization benchmark

B.2.1. ALOHA robot

Our generalization benchmark expands the benchmark defined in (Gemini-Robotics-Team et al., 2025)
(68 generalization tasks) with a new set of action generalization tasks (5 tasks) and a new category to
measure generalization to entirely new tasks (12 tasks). See (Gemini-Robotics-Team et al., 2025) for
details about previous Visual, Instruction and Action generalization tasks. To measure performance
in-distribution we use the dexterity benchmark defined in Section 3.2 of (Gemini-Robotics-Team
et al., 2025) (20 tasks). Progress score definition for in-distribution, visual, semantic and action
generalization can also be found in (Gemini-Robotics-Team et al., 2025).


B.2.1.1     New action generalization progress score definition

The action generalization benchmark defined in prior work (Gemini-Robotics-Team et al., 2025)
largely focused on measuring the model’s ability to handle new object locations and shape variants.
We expand the benchmark further to include tasks that require the policy to compose multiple learned
motions in novel ways to solve new tasks. For example, having seen data of the robot pushing objects

                                                                                                                              32
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



for a short distance at different locations, the ’drink-pushing’ task (Figure 22) measures how well the
policy can combine them together to push a novel object all the way from bottom of the table to the
top edge. Table 3 lists the definition of progress scores for each task.

 Place the cube inside the bag.                 Pick up the grape with the left             Put the Knopper snack in the                 Push the drink to the front of
                                                arm and pick up the bread                   tupperware.                                  the table.
                                                with the right arm.




 Take the straw out of the
 tupperware.




Figure 22 | Examples of the expanded action generalization benchmark.

Table 3 | Progress Scores: New action generalization tasks progress score.

                                                                       New action generalization tasks.

 “Place the cube inside the bag”.                            “Pick up the grape with the left arm and pick up the       “Put the Knopper snack in the tupperware”.
                                                             bread with the right arm”..

 1.0: if the successfully placed the cube inside the bag;    1.0: if both objects are picked up by the correct arm;     1.0: if the robot successfully put the Knopper snack in
 0.3: if the robot picked up the cube but failed to put it   0.3: if one of the arms picked up the correct object,      the tupperware;
 in the bag;                                                 another arm picked up the wrong object;                    0.4: if the robot picked up the right snack but failed to
 0.0: if the robot failed to pick the cube.                  0.0: if both arms picked up wrong object.                  put in tupperware after 5 attempted;
                                                                                                                        0.0: if the robot pick up the wrong object.


 “Push the drink to the front of the table”.                 “Take the straw out of the tupperware”.

 1.0: if the robot successfully pushed the drink to the      1.0: if the robot successfully picked up the straw and
 top part of the table;                                      move it outside of the range of the tupperware;
 0.5: if the robot didn’t fully push the drink to the top    0.3: if the robot picked the straw but failed to move it
 part of the table, or pushed something else first;          out, or poured the tupperware;
 0.0: if the robot didn’t approach the correct object at     0.0: if the robot didn’t approach the straw or tupper-
 all.                                                        ware.




B.2.1.2          Task generalization progress score definition

We consider 12 different tasks across multiple scenes. The tasks have unseen instructions, unseen
objects and initial conditions compare to the training data. See Figure 23 for details and Table 4
collects for the definition of progress for each task for the new category of task generalization.

B.2.2. Bi-arm Franka robot

We defined a new generalization benchmark for our Bi-arm Franka robot. This benchmark includes
a total of 44 tasks, 20 of those in distribution and 24 including variants of them across different
axes: instruction, visual and action generalization, following the same approach we used to define
the ALOHA robot benchmark in (Gemini-Robotics-Team et al., 2025). For the task generalization


                                                                                                                                                                                    33
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



 Pick up a bottle and put it in       Pick up a bottle from the box    Pick up the blue hat and hang      Pick up a bottle and place it in
 the bottom shelf of the              and put it on the table.         it on the hook.                    the leftmost compartment of
 wardrobe.                                                                                                the folder rack.




 Pick up the plum blossom and         Pick up the rubber stamp and     Take the hat off the hook and      Wipe the left shoe with the
 insert it vertically and carefully   stamp the white paper with it.   place it on the table.             cloth.
 into the glass vase.




 Wipe the table with the cloth.       Wipe the top of the toaster
                                      with the cloth.




Figure 23 | Examples of task execution for the Task generalization analysis of 3.1.


category we used the same 12 tasks and progress score described in B.2.1.2 for ALOHA. It is worth
noting that the the Bi-arm Franka benchmark also includes highly dexterous tasks such as NIST Board
2 assembly tasks and insertion of cables in a workstation and sockets.
    The Bi-arm Franka robot benchmark is defined across three different scenes (Figure 24):

 Workbench scene                                Computer scene                              NIST Assembly Board 2




Figure 24 | Scenes used to define the generalization benchmark for Bi-Arm Franka robot. Left: A workbench
inspired scene that allows for manipulation of tools and skills ranging from hanging, unhanging, picking and
placing. Center: a scene with a computer and assorted cables and peripherals, allowing for cable handling,
insertions and removals. Left: Layout of the National Institute of Science and Technology (NIST) Task Board 2
(NIST).


    • Workbench: this scene spans both table-top manipulation tasks and interaction with the vertical

                                                                                                                                             34
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer


Table 4 | Progress Scores: Task generalization tasks.

                                                                 Task generalization tasks progress score.

 “Pick up a bottle and put it in the bottom shelf of the    “Pick up a bottle from the box and put it on the            “Pick up the blue hat and hang it on the hook”.
 wardrobe”.                                                 table”.

 1.0: if the robot placed the bottle in the wardrobe;       1.0: if the robot placed a bottle on the table;             1.0: if the robot successfully hung the hat on the hook;
 0.75: if the robot moved the bottle towards the            0.25: if the robot reached for a bottle but did not grasp   0.75: if the robot tried to hang the hat on the hook;
 wardrobe;                                                  it;                                                         0.5: if the robot grasped the hat;
 0.5: if the robot grasped a bottle;                        0.0: if anything else happened.                             0.0: if anything else happened.
 0.0: if anything else happened.


 “Pick up a bottle and place it in the leftmost com-        “Pick up the plum blossom and insert it vertically          “Pick up the rubber stamp and stamp the white paper
 partment of the folder rack”.                              and carefully into the glass vase”.                         with it”.

 1.0: if the robot placed the bottle in the leftmost com-   1.0: if the robot inserted the plum blossom into the        1.0: if the robot stamped the document;
 partment of the folder rack;                               vase;                                                       0.75: if the robot moved the rubber stamp over the
 0.75: if the robot placed the bottle in any compartment    0.75: if the robot moved the plum blossom towards the       document;
 of the folder rack;                                        vase;                                                       0.25: if the robot grasped the rubber stamp;
 0.5: if the robot moved the bottle towards the folder      0.50: if the robot grasped the plum blossom;                0.0: if anything else happened.
 rack;                                                      0.25: if the robot moved towards the plum blossom;
 0.25: if the robot grasped a bottle;                       0.0: if anything else happened.
 0.0: if anything else happened.


 “Take the hat off the hook and place it on the table”      “Wipe the left shoe with the cloth”                         “Wipe the table with the cloth”

 1.0: if the robot placed the hat on the table;             1.0: if the robot wiped the left shoe;                      1.0: if the robot moved towards the cloth back and forth
 0.75: if the robot removed the hat from the hook;          0.5: if the robot moved the cloth towards the left shoe;    on some portion of the table;
 0.5: if the robot grasped the hat;                         0.25: if the robot grasped the cloth;                       0.5: if the robot grasped the cloth;
 0.0: if anything else happened.                            0.0: if anything else happened.                             0.25: if the robot reached the cloth;
                                                                                                                        0.0: if anything else happened.


 “Wipe the top of the toaster with the cloth”

 1.0: if the robot wiped the top of the toaster;
 0.75: if the robot moved towards the cloth towards the
 top of the toaster;
 0.25: if the robot grasped the cloth;
 0.0: if anything else happened.




      back panel, which allows for manipulation of tools and skills ranging from hanging, unhanging,
      picking and placing.
    • Computer scene: this scene requires interacting with real-world computer, cables and periph-
      erals that involves dexterous and precise tasks such as cable handling, insertions and removals.
    • NIST Assembly Board 2: based on the Task Assembly Board 2 as defined by NIST, this scene
      presents complex and precise assembly and removal of the three belts present.

    Figure 25 shows examples of task variations to measure instruction, visual and semantic general-
ization on the Bi-arm Franka robot.




                                                                                                                                                                                   35
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



Computer scene
    In-distribution scene           Action generalization            Scene generalization          Instruction generalization




                                                                                                 Conecta el enchufe a la
                                                                                                 computadora



                         Connect the power cable into the computer


Workbench scene
    In-distribution scene           Action generalization            Scene generalization          Instruction generalization




                                                                                                 Put the object used for
                                                                                                 cleaning on the table



                                  Put the brush on the table


Figure 25 | Example variations of scenes used for measuring performance across generalization axes on the
Bi-arm Franka platform.


B.2.2.1     Task progress score for in-distribution, visual and action generalization tasks

We now define the task progress score for each task in the generalization benchmark for Bi-arm
Franka robot.
Workbench scene




                                                                                                                                36
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer


Table 5 | Progress Scores: Bi-arm Franka (Workbench scene).

                                                                Benchmark: Bi-arm Franka - Workbench scene.

 “Hang the tape”.                                             “Unhang the tape”.                                         “Unhang the level”.

 1.0: if the robot hung the tape successfully;                1.0: if the tape got unhooked and ends up anywhere         1.0: if the level got unhooked and ends up anywhere
 0.7: if the robot grasped the tape and tried to hang it      on the table;                                              on the table;
 but failed;                                                  0.7: if the robot grasped the tape but failed to unhook    0.8: if the robot unhooked the level only from one hook;
 0.3: if the robot grasped the tape but didn’t move to-       it;                                                        0.7: if the robot grasped the level but failed to unhook
 wards the hook;                                              0.3: if the robot reached for the tape on the back-panel   it;
 0.1: if the robot reached for the tape but failed to grasp   but failed to grasp it;                                    0.3: if the robot reached for the level on the back-panel
 it;                                                          0.0: if anything else happened.                            but failed to grasp it;
 0.0: if the robot didn’t reach for the tape.                                                                            0.0: if anything else happened.


 “Remove the red pen”.                                        “Place the rightmost wrench on the table”.                 “Remove a gear from the rightmost container”.

 1.0: if the red pen ended up anywhere on the table;          1.0: if the rightmost wrench (with respect to the robot)   1.0: if at least a gear from the rightmost container (with
 0.7: if the robot grasped the red pen but failed to take     got unhooked and ended up anywhere on the table;           respect to the robot) ended up anywhere on the table;
 it off;                                                      0.7: if the robot grasped the rightmost wrench (with       0.7: if the robot grasped a gear from the rightmost con-
 0.3: if the robot reached for the red pen on the back-       respect to the robot) but failed to unhook it;             tainer (with respect to the robot) but failed to remove
 panel but failed to grasp it;                                0.3: if the robot reached for the rightmost wrench (with   it from the container;
 0.0: if anything else happened.                              respect to the robot) on the back-panel but failed to      0.3: if the robot reached for a gear from the rightmost
                                                              grasp it;                                                  container (with respect to the robot) but failed to grasp
                                                              0.0: if anything else happened.                            it;
                                                                                                                         0.0: if anything else happened.


 “Place the brush on the table”.                              “Put a gear in the rightmost container”.

 1.0: if the brush got unhooked and ended up anywhere         1.0: if a gear had been moved to the rightmost container
 on the table;                                                (with respect to the robot);
 0.7: if the robot grasped the brush but failed to unhook     0.7: if the robot grasped a gear and attempted to put it
 it;                                                          in the rightmost container (with respect to the robot)
 0.3: if the robot reached for the brush on the back-panel    but failed to do to so;
 but failed to grasp it;                                      0.3: if the robot reached for a gear from the table but
 0.0: if anything else happened.                              failed to grasp it;
                                                              0.0: if anything else happened.




Computer scene




                                                                                                                                                                                      37
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer


Table 6 | Progress Scores: Bi-arm Franka (Computer scene).

                                                               Benchmark: Bi-arm Franka - Computer scene.

 “Connect the power plug to the computer”.                   “Insert the white power plug into the socket”.                “Insert the orange LAN cable in the computer”.

 1.0: if the robot fully inserted the power plug into the    1.0: if the robot grasped the plug and successfully in-       1.0: if the robot grasped the orange internet cable and
 right place in the computer;                                serted it in the socket;                                      successfully inserted it in the right socket of the com-
 0.8: if the robot partially inserted the power plug into    0.9: if the robot grasped the plug and partially inserted     puter;
 the right place in the computer;                            it in the socket;                                             0.9: if the robot grasped the orange internet cable and
 0.5: if the robot grasped the power plug and tried to       0.6: if the robot grasped the plug, tried to insert it in     partially inserted it in the socket of the computer;
 insert it in the right place in the computer but failed;    the socket but failed;                                        0.6: if the robot grasped the orange internet cable, tried
 0.3: if the robot managed to grasp the power plug but       0.3: if the robot grasped the plug but didn’t try to insert   to insert it in the right socket of the computer but failed;
 didn’t try to insert it into the computer.                  it in the socket;                                             0.3: if the robot grasped the orange internet cable but
 0.1: if the robot reached for the power plug but failed     0.1: if the robot reached for the plug but didn’t grasp it;   didn’t try to insert it in the right socket of the computer;
 to grasp it.                                                0.0: if the robot didn’t reach for the plug.                  0.1: if the robot reached for the orange internet cable
 0.0: if the robot didn’t reach for the power plug.                                                                        but didn’t grasp it;
                                                                                                                           0.0: if the robot didn’t reach for the orange internet
                                                                                                                           cable.


 “Hang the headphones on the wall”.                          “Put the headphones on the desk”.                             “Remove the orange LAN cable from the computer”.

 1.0: if the robot hung the headphones;                      1.0: if the robot put the headphones on the desk;             1.0: if the robot managed to remove the orange internet
 0.7: if the robot grasped the headphones and tried to       0.8: if the robot managed to remove the headphones            cable from the computer;
 hang them but failed;                                       from the hook;                                                0.6: if the robot grasped the orange internet cable, tried
 0.3: if the robot grasped the headphones but didn’t         0.1: if the robot reached the headphones but failed to        to remove it from the computer but it failed;
 move towards the hall;                                      grasp them;                                                   0.3: if the robot grasped the orange internet cable but
 0.1: if the robot reached for the headphones but failed     0.0: if the robot didn’t reach for the headphones.            didn’t try to remove it from the computer;
 to grasp it;                                                                                                              0.1: if the robot reached for the orange internet cable
 0.0: if the robot didn’t reach for the headphones.                                                                        but didn’t grasp it;
                                                                                                                           0.0: if the robot didn’t reach for the orange internet
                                                                                                                           cable.


 “Remove the power plug cable from the computer”

 1.0: if the robot managed to remove the power plug
 cable from the computer;
 0.6: if the robot grasped the power plug cable, tried to
 remove it from the computer but it failed;
 0.3: if the robot grasped the power plug cable but didn’t
 try to remove it from the computer;
 0.1: if the robot reached for the power plug cable but
 didn’t grasp it;
 0.0: if the robot didn’t reach for the power plug.




NIST Assembly Task Board 2 We use only in-distribution variations of the NIST Assembly tasks.


B.2.2.2          Task progress score for semantic generalization tasks

Workbench scene




                                                                                                                                                                                          38
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer


Table 7 | Progress Scores: Bi-arm Franka (NIST Assembly Task Board 2).

                                                              Benchmark: Bi-arm Franka - NIST Assembly Task Board 2.

 “Put the timing belt on the timing pulleys”.                    “Remove the timing belt from the timing pulleys”.           “Place the orange round belt on the slide tensioners”.

 1.0: If the robot assembled the timing belt on the timing       1.0: if the robot let go of the timing belt;                1.0: if the robot let go of the orange belt;
 pulleys and let it go;                                          0.9: if the robot put the timing belt on the ground;        0.9: if the robot inserted it on both wheels correctly;
 0.9: if the robot inserted on both wheels correctly;            0.8: if the robot fully unhooked the timing belt from       0.5: if the robot handed the belt over to grasp the orange
 0.7: if the robot pushed the blue tensioner, with the belt      the two pulleys and the tensioner;                          belt with both arms;
 loosely on the second wheel;                                    0.6: if the robot unhooked the timing belt from a pulley    0.1: if the robot grasped and lifted the orange belt with
 0.5: if the robot inserted on one wheel;                        and the tensioner;                                          the left arm;
 0.3: if the robot handed the belt over to grasp the timing      0.3: if the robot unhooked the timing belt from one of      0.0: if the robot couldn’t even pick up the orange belt.
 belt with both arms;                                            the pulleys;
 0.1: if the robot grasped and lifted the timing belt;           0.1: if the robot grasped the timing belt;
 0.0: if the robot couldn’t even pick up the timing belt.        0.0: if the robot did not do anything.


 “Remove the orange round belt from the slide ten-               “Put the chain belt on the sprocket idlers”.                “Remove the chain from the sprockets”.
 sioners”.

 1.0: if the robot let go of the orange belt;                    1.0: if the robot let go of the chain;                      1.0: if the robot let go of the chain;
 0.9: if the robot put the orange belt on the table top;         0.9: if the robot inserted it on both sprockets and         0.9: if the robot put the chain on the ground;
 0.5: if the robot unhooked the orange belt from both            aligned it with the tensioner;                              0.8: if the robot fully unhooked the chain from both
 tensioners;                                                     0.7: if the robot inserted it on two sprockets;             sprockets and the chain tensioner;
 0.1: if the robot grasped and unhooked the orange belt          0.5: if the robot inserted it on one sprocket;              0.6: if the robot unhooked the chain from two sprockets
 from one of the tensioners;                                     0.3: if the robot handed the chain over to grasp it with    or one sprocket and the chain tensioner;
 0.0: if the robot couldn’t even pick up the orange belt.        both arms;                                                  0.3: if the robot unhooked the chain from one sprocket
                                                                 0.1: if the robot grasped and lifted the metal chain;       and/or the chain tensioner;
                                                                 0.0: if the robot couldn’t even pick up the metal chain.    0.1: if the robot grasped the chain;
                                                                                                                             0.0: if the robot did not do anything.




Table 8 | Progress Scores: Bi-arm Franka (Semantic Gen. - Workbench).

                                                      Benchmark: Bi-arm Franka - Semantic Generalization (Workbench).

 “quitar la cinta”.                                              “unhang the long red tool”.                                 “Put the object used for cleaning on the table”.

 1.0: if the tape got unhooked and ended up anywhere             1.0: if the level got unhooked and ended up anywhere        1.0: if the brush got unhooked and ended up anywhere
 on the table;                                                   on the table;                                               on the table;
 0.7: if the robot grasped the tape but failed to unhook         0.8: if the robot unhooked the level only from one hook;    0.7: if the robot grasped the brush but failed to unhook
 it;                                                             0.7: if the robot grasped the level but failed to unhook    it;
 0.3: if the robot reached for the tape on the back-panel        it;                                                         0.3: if the robot reached for the brush on the back-panel
 but failed to grasp it;                                         0.3: if the robot reached for the level on the back-panel   but failed to grasp it;
 0.0: if anything else happened.                                 but failed to grasp it;                                     0.0: if anything else happened.
                                                                 0.0: if anything else happened.




Computer scene

B.2.3. Apollo humanoid robot

We defined a new generalization benchmark for our Apollo humanoid robot. This benchmark includes
a total of 24 tasks, of those in distribution and including variants of them across different axes:
instruction, visual and action generalization, following the same approach we used to define the
ALOHA robot benchmark in (Gemini-Robotics-Team et al., 2025). For the task generalization category
we used the same tasks described in B.2.1.2 for ALOHA.
    Figure 26 shows examples of task variations to measure instruction, visual and semantic general-
ization on the Apollo humanoid robot.




                                                                                                                                                                                          39
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer


Table 9 | Progress Scores: Bi-arm Franka (Semantic Gen. - Computer Scene).

                                                Benchmark: Bi-arm Franka - Semantic Generalization (Computer Scene).

 “Desconecta el cable de red naranja de la computa-       “conecta el enchufe a la computadora”.                     “Hong the eadphones to te wal”.
 dora”.

 1.0: the robot managed to remove the power plug cable    1.0: The robot fully inserted the power plug into the      1.0: The robot hung the headphones;
 from the computer;                                       right place in the computer;                               0.7: The robot grasped the headphones and tried to
 0.6: the robot grasped the power plug cable, tried to    0.8: The robot partially inserted the power plug into      hang them but failed;
 remove it from the computer but it failed;               the right place in the computer;                           0.3: The robot grasped the headphones but didn’t move
 0.3: the robot grasped the power plug cable but didn’t   0.5: The robot grasped the power plug and tried to         towards the hall;
 try to remove it from the computer;                      insert it in the right place in the computer but failed;   0.1: The robot reached for the headphones but failed
 0.1: the robot reached for the power plug cable but      0.3: The robot managed to grasp the power plug but         to grasp it;
 didn’t grasp it;                                         didn’t try to insert it into the computer.                 0.0: The robot didn’t reach for the headphones.
 0.0: the robot didn’t reach for the power plug.          0.1: The robot reached for the power plug but failed to
                                                          grasp it.
                                                          0.0: The robot didn’t reach for the power plug.




                                                                                                                                     Recoge la pelota antiestrés y
                                                                                                                                     colócala en la bolsa blanca



                              Pick up the stress ball and place it in the white bag


Figure 26 | Example variations of scenes used for measuring performance across generalization axes on the
Apollo humanoid platform.


B.2.3.1 Task progress score for in-distribution, visual, semantic and action generalization tasks




                                                                                                                                                                             40
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer


Table 10 | Progress Scores: Apollo humanoid (In-distribution and Visual Gen.).

                                                   Benchmark: Apollo humanoid - In-distribution and Visual Generalization.

 “Pick up the gummy bear bag and place it in the              “Pick up the rubik’s cube and place it in the white          “Pick up the egg from the bottom right slot of the
 white bag”.                                                  bag”.                                                        yellow egg box with your right hand and place the
                                                                                                                           egg in the tray”.

 1.00: if the robot picked the correct object and placed      1.00: if the robot picked the correct object and placed      1.00: if the robot picked up the egg with its right hand
 it in the bag;                                               it in the bag;                                               and placed it in the tray;
 0.50: if the robot picked the wrong object but correctly     0.50: if the robot picked the wrong object but correctly     0.67: if the robot picked up the egg with its right hand;
 placed it in the bag;                                        placed it in the bag;                                        0.33: if the robot touched the egg with its right hand;
 0.50: if the robot picked the correct object but didn’t      0.50: if the robot picked the correct object but didn’t      0.00: if the robot did anything else.
 place it in the bag;                                         place it in the bag;
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                        0.00: if the robot did anything else.


 “Pick up the egg from the bottom right slot of the           “Pick up the bottom green lettuce from the table with        “Pick up the right orange traffic cone from the table
 yellow egg box with your left hand and place the egg         your right hand”.                                            with your right hand”.
 in the tray”.

 1.00: if the robot picked up the egg with its left hand      1.00: if the robot picked up the bottom green lettuce        1.00: if the robot picked up the right orange traffic cone
 and placed it in the tray;                                   with its right hand;                                         with its right hand;
 0.67: if the robot picked up the egg with its left hand;     0.75: if the robot touched the bottom green lettuce with     0.75: if the robot touched the right orange traffic cone
 0.33: if the robot touched the egg with its left hand;       its right hand;                                              with its right hand;
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                        0.50: if the robot picked up lettuce with its right hand,    0.50: if the robot picked up a traffic cone, but not the
                                                              but not the bottom green lettuce;                            right orange traffic cone;
                                                              0.25: if the robot touched lettuce with its right hand,      0.25: if the robot touched a traffic cone, but not the
                                                              but not the bottom green lettuce;                            right orange traffic cone;
                                                              0.00: if the robot did anything else.                        0.00: if the robot did anything else.


 “Pick up the blue vehicle toy with your right hand           “Pick up the light pink color soft toy with your left
 and place it in the white bowl”                              hand and place it in the brown bowl”

 1.00: if the robot picked up the blue vehicle toy with its   1.00: if the robot picked up the light pink color soft toy
 right hand and placed it in the white bowl;                  with its left hand and placed it in the brown bowl;
 0.67: if the robot picked up the blue vehicle toy with its   0.67: if the robot picked up the light pink color soft toy
 right hand;                                                  with its left hand;
 0.33: if the robot touched the blue vehicle toy with its     0.33: if the robot touched the light pink color soft toy
 right hand;                                                  with its left hand;
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                        0.00: if the robot did anything else.




B.3. Cross-embodiment benchmark

In order to measure Motion Transfer across our three robots we define benchmarks for testing tasks
on a Robot A for which data was only collected on Robot B and vice-versa. We focus on the following
scenarios.

B.3.1. Bi-arm Franka → ALOHA benchmark

The ALOHA robot data is diverse and enables the execution of a multitude of tasks as demonstrated in
our prior work (Gemini-Robotics-Team et al., 2025). However, the vast majority of this data focuses
on table top tasks with limited interaction on the vertical axis. Meanwhile for Bi-arm Franka robot
we have collected data involving interacting with a vertically mounted back-panel that goes beyond
the typical motion range for ALOHA. As such, tasks in this scenario (e.g. hanging/unhanging tools)
provide an ideal benchmark for motion transfer as a model trained with solely ALOHA data cannot
solve them. Following this strategy, we design a set of 10 tasks in this benchmark. Figure 27 provides
a visual overview of the tasks and Table 13 provides the progress score definition for each task.

B.3.2. ALOHA benchmark → Bi-arm Franka and Apollo humanoid robot → Bi-arm Franka

We identified in the ALOHA data tasks that require specific motions such as open drawers or closing
a pear-shaped organizer (task that requires precise control) which are not available in the Bi-arm
Franka data. In addition we added some easier packing tasks to see whether motion transfer could
not only transfer new skills but also improves performance on easier tasks. We followed a similar
procedure to define the tasks to measure motion transfer from the Humanoid robot to the Bi-arm
Franka. Figure 28 and 29 provides a visual overview of the tasks (11 in total) and Table 14 provides

                                                                                                                                                                                        41
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer


Table 11 | Progress Scores: Apollo humanoid (Semantic Generalization).

                                                            Benchmark: Apollo humanoid - Semantic Generalization.

 “Recoge la pelota antiestrés y colócala en la bolsa          “Pikc up the stress ball and palce it in the wite bag”.     “Tome el huevo de la ranura inferior derecha de la
 blanca”.                                                                                                                 caja de huevos amarilla con la mano izquierda y
                                                                                                                          coloque el huevo en la bandeja”.

 1.00: if the robot picked the correct object and placed      1.00: if the robot picked the correct object and placed     1.00: if the robot picked up the egg with its left hand
 it in the bag;                                               it in the bag;                                              and placed it in the tray;
 0.50: if the robot picked the wrong object but correctly     0.50: if the robot picked the wrong object but correctly    0.50: if the robot picked up the egg with its left hand;
 placed it in the bag;                                        placed it in the bag;                                       0.00: if the robot did anything else.
 0.50: if the robot picked the correct object but didn’t      0.50: if the robot picked the correct object but didn’t
 place it in the bag;                                         place it in the bag;
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                        0.00: if the robot did anything else.


 “Pick up the eg form the bottom right splot of the           “Recoge con tu mano derecha la lechuga verde que            “Pikc up the bottm green lettuuce from the tble with
 yellwo egg box with your left hand and place the egg         está al final de la mesa cerca de ti”.                      yor rght haand”.
 in the try”.

 1.00: if the robot picked up the egg with its left hand      1.00: if the robot picked up the bottom green lettuce       1.00: if the robot picked up the bottom green lettuce
 and placed it in the tray;                                   with its right hand;                                        with its right hand;
 0.50: if the robot picked up the egg with its left hand;     0.75: if the robot touched the bottom green lettuce with    0.75: if the robot touched the bottom green lettuce with
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                        its right hand;                                             its right hand;
                                                              0.50: if the robot picked up lettuce with its right hand,   0.50: if the robot picked up lettuce with its right hand,
                                                              but not the bottom green lettuce;                           but not the bottom green lettuce;
                                                              0.25: if the robot touched lettuce with its right hand,     0.25: if the robot touched lettuce with its right hand,
                                                              but not the bottom green lettuce;                           but not the bottom green lettuce;
                                                              0.00: if the robot did anything else.                       0.00: if the robot did anything else.


 “Recoge el vehículo de juguete azul y colócalo en el         “Pic up the blu vehical toy and place it in teh wite
 recipiente blanco”.                                          bowl”.

 1.00: if the robot picked up the blue vehicle toy and        1.00: if the robot picked up the blue vehicle toy and
 placed it in the white bowl;                                 placed it in the white bowl;
 0.50: if the robot picked up the blue vehicle toy;           0.50: if the robot picked up the blue vehicle toy;
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                        0.00: if the robot did anything else.




the progress score definition for each task.

B.3.3. ALOHA benchmark → Humanoid robot

We followed a similar approach for the Humanoid robot: we looked into skills in the ALOHA dataset
that are not covered by the action data for the Humanoid. One example to highlight this is the task
"open the wardrobe", which is a motor skill completely outside the covergae of the Humanoid dataset.
Fig 30 shows visuals of the 7 tasks in this benchmark and Table 15 reports the definition of the
progress score for each task.




                                                                                                                                                                                      42
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




Table 12 | Progress Scores: Apollo humanoid (Action Generalization).

                                                            Benchmark: Apollo humanoid - Action Generalization.

 “Pick up the black flashlight and place it in the white     “Pick up the black and brown snack bag and place it        “Pick up the orange mentos container and place it
 bag”.                                                       in the white bag”.                                         in the white bag”.

 1.00: if the robot picked the correct object and placed     1.00: if the robot picked the correct object and placed    1.00: if the robot picked the correct object and placed
 it in the bag;                                              it in the bag;                                             it in the bag;
 0.50: if the robot picked the wrong object but correctly    0.50: if the robot picked the wrong object but correctly   0.50: if the robot picked the wrong object but correctly
 placed it in the bag;                                       placed it in the bag;                                      placed it in the bag;
 0.50: if the robot picked the correct object but didn’t     0.50: if the robot picked the correct object but didn’t    0.50: if the robot picked the correct object but didn’t
 place it in the bag;                                        place it in the bag;                                       place it in the bag;
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                       0.00: if the robot did anything else.                      0.00: if the robot did anything else.


 “Pick up the orange and place it in the white bag”.         “Pick up the purple die and place it in the white          “Pick up the blue cereal box with your right hand”.
                                                             bag”.

 1.00: if the robot picked the correct object and placed     1.00: if the robot picked the correct object and placed    1.00: if the robot picked up the blue cereal box with its
 it in the bag;                                              it in the bag;                                             right hand;
 0.50: if the robot picked the wrong object but correctly    0.50: if the robot picked the wrong object but correctly   0.67: if the robot picked up the blue cereal box with its
 placed it in the bag;                                       placed it in the bag;                                      left hand;
 0.50: if the robot picked the correct object but didn’t     0.50: if the robot picked the correct object but didn’t    0.33: if the robot touched the blue cereal box with its
 place it in the bag;                                        place it in the bag;                                       right hand;
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                       0.00: if the robot did anything else.                      0.00: if the robot did anything else.


 “Pick up the leftmost green pringles can from the           “Pick up the red cereal box with your left hand”.
 top shelf of the black rack with your left hand”.

 1.00: if the robot picked up the green pringles can with    1.00: if the robot picked up the red cereal box with its
 its left hand;                                              left hand;
 0.67: if the robot picked up the green pringles can with    0.67: if the robot picked up the red cereal box with its
 its right hand;                                             right hand;
 0.33: if the robot touched the green pringles can with      0.33: if the robot touched the red cereal box with its
 its left hand;                                              left hand;
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                       0.00: if the robot did anything else.




                                                                                                                                                                                    43
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




 Hang the tape to the wall.       Hang the timing belt to the       Hang the orange belt to the      Unhang the tape from the
                                  wall.                             wall.                            wall and put it on the table.




 Pick up a marker and put it on   Put the mouse in the blue bin.    Hang the headphones to the       Remove the usb cable from the
 the table.                                                         wall.                            computer.




 Unhang the brush from the        Remove the usb cable from the
 wall and put it on the table.    computer.




Figure 27 | Example of execution of cross-embodiment tasks for Bi-arm Franka → ALOHA benchmark.



Put the grapes into the largest   Pour the toy from the blue        Open the top drawer by pulling   Close the pear organizer.
container of the bento box.       bowl into the red plate           the knob.




Open the middle drawer by         Put the yellow lego in the bag.
pulling the red knob.




Figure 28 | Example of execution of cross-embodiment tasks for ALOHA → Bi-arm Franka benchmark.



                                                                                                                                     44
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




Table 13 | Progress Scores: Bi-arm Franka → ALOHA Benchmark.

                                                                  Benchmark: Bi-arm Franka → ALOHA.

 “Hang the orange belt on the small metal hook on           “Hang the timing belt on the small metal hook on           “Hang the tape to the wall”.
 the wall”.                                                 the wall”.

 1.00: if the robot hung the orange belt on the hook;       1.00: if the robot hung the timing belt on the hook;       1.00: if the robot hung the tape;
 0.90: if the robot tried to hang the orange belt on the    0.90: if the robot tried to hang the timing belt on the    0.90: if the robot tried to hang the tape on the hook;
 hook;                                                      hook;                                                      0.80: if the robot moved towards the hook after grasping
 0.80: if the robot moved towards the hook after grasping   0.80: if the robot moved towards the hook after grasping   the tape;
 the orange belt;                                           the timing belt;                                           0.20: if the robot grasped the tape;
 0.20: if the robot grasped the orange belt;                0.20: if the robot grasped the timing belt;                0.10: if the robot reached the tape;
 0.10: if the robot reached the orange belt;                0.10: if the robot reached the timing belt;                0.00: if the robot didn’t reach for the tape.
 0.00: if the robot didn’t reach for the orange belt.       0.00: if the robot didn’t reach for the timing belt.


 “Unhang the brush and put it on the table”.                “Pick up a marker and put it on the table”.                “Unhang the tape and put it on the table”.

 1.00: if the robot unhooked the brush and it ends up       1.00: if the robot managed to pick up a marker and put     1.00: if the robot unhooked the tape and it ends up
 anywhere on the table;                                     it on the desk;                                            anywhere on the table;
 0.70: if the robot grasped the brush but fails to unhook   0.90: if the robot managed to pick up a marker;            0.70: if the robot grasped the tape but fails to unhook
 it;                                                        0.50: if the robot tried to pick up a marker;              it;
 0.30: if the robot attempted to grasp the brush on the     0.10: if the robot reached to a marker but didn’t try to   0.30: if the robot attempted to grasp the tape on the
 backpanel but couldn’t succeed in doing so;                pick it up;                                                backpanel but couldn’t succeed in doing so;
 0.00: if the robot has no success.                         0.05: if the robot reached toward the markers but didn’t   0.00: if the robot has no success.
                                                            get close enough;
                                                            0.00: if the robot didn’t reach toward the markers.


 “Unplug the usb cable”.                                    “Unplug the power cable”.                                  “Hang the headphones on the small metal hook on
                                                                                                                       the wall”.

 1.00: if the robot unplugs the cable;                      1.00: if the robot unplugs the cable;                      1.00: if the robot managed to hang the headphones on
 0.70: if the robot tried to unplug the cable;              0.70: if the robot tried to unplug the cable;              the hook;
 0.40: if the robot grasped the cable;                      0.40: if the robot grasped the cable;                      0.70: if the robot tried to hang the headphones on the
 0.20: if the robot reached toward the cable but didn’t     0.20: if the robot reached toward the cable but didn’t     hook;
 get close enough;                                          get close enough;                                          0.50: if the robot moved the headphones toward the
 0.00: if the robot didn’t reach toward the cable.          0.00: if the robot didn’t reach toward the cable.          hook but didn’t get close enough;
                                                                                                                       0.30: if the robot lifted the headphones;
                                                                                                                       0.20: if the robot grasped the headphones but didn’t lift
                                                                                                                       them;
                                                                                                                       0.10: if the robot reached toward the headphones but
                                                                                                                       didn’t get close enough;
                                                                                                                       0.00: if the robot didn’t reach toward the headphones.


 “Put the mouse in one of the blue bins”.

 1.00: if the robot managed to put the mouse in the bin;
 0.70: if the robot tried to put the mouse in a bin;
 0.50: if the robot moved the mouse towards a bin but
 didn’t get close enough;
 0.30: if the robot lifted the mouse;
 0.10: if the robot grasped the mouse but didn’t lift it;
 0.05: if the robot reached toward the mouse but didn’t
 get close enough;
 0.00: if the robot didn’t reach toward the mouse.




                                                                      Pick up the black beanie and place it in the white bag.

                                                                      Pick up the gummy bear bag and place it in the white bag.

                                                                      Pick up the rubiks cube and place it in the white bag

                                                                      Pick up the stress ball and place it in the white bag.

                                                                      Pick up the white socks and place it in the white bag.


Figure 29 | Cross-embodiment tasks for Apollo humanoid → Bi-arm Franka benchmark.




                                                                                                                                                                                   45
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




Table 14 | Progress Scores: ALOHA/Humanoid → Bi-arm Franka.

                                                            Benchmark: ALOHA/Humanoid → Bi-arm Franka.

 “Close the pear organizer”.                                “Put the grapes in the largest compartment of the           “Pour the toy from the blue bowl into the red plate”.
                                                            bento box”.

 1.00: if the robot placed the pear top onto the bottom     1.00: if the robot put the grapes in the largest compart-   1.00: if the robot poured at least one toy onto the plate;
 so it covers the compartment;                              ment;                                                       0.70: if the robot tried to pour the toys onto the plate;
 0.50: if the robot held the pear top above the center      0.50: if the robot put the grapes anywhere on the bento     0.30: if the robot held the bowl above the plate;
 compartment of the base;                                   box;                                                        0.20: if the robot grasped the bowl;
 0.20: if the robot grasped the pear top;                   0.20: if the robot grasped the grapes;                      0.05: if the robot reached for the bowl;
 0.05: if the robot reached toward the pear top;            0.10: if the robot reached for the grapes;                  0.00: if the robot did anything else.
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                      0.00: if the robot did anything else.

                                                                                                                         “Open the middle drawer by pulling the red knob”.
 “Open the top drawer by pulling the knob”.                 “Put the yellow lego in the bag”.

 1.00: if the robot opened the top drawer by pulling the    1.00: if the robot put the yellow block in the bag;         1.00: if the robot opened the correct drawer;
 knob;                                                      0.70: if the robot put any block in the bag;                0.60: if the robot opened any drawer;
 0.90: if the robot opened the top drawer;                  0.50: if the robot held the yellow block above the bag;     0.30: if the robot grasped any knob;
 0.80: if the robot opened any drawer;                      0.20: if the robot grasped the yellow block;                0.10: if the robot reached for any knob;
 0.50: if the robot grasped any knob;                       0.10: if the robot reached for the yellow block;            0.05: if the robot reached toward the drawer;
 0.10: if the robot reached for any knob;                   0.00: if the robot did anything else.                       0.00: if the robot did anything else.
 0.05: if the robot reached toward the drawer;
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.


 “Pick up the stress ball and place it in the white bag”.   “Pick up the white socks and place it in the white          “Pick up the rubiks cube and place it in the white
                                                            bag”.                                                       bag”.

 1.00: if the robot placed the object in the white bag;     1.00: if the robot placed the object in the white bag;      1.00: if the robot placed the object in the white bag;
 0.50: if the robot grasped the object and brings it over   0.50: if the robot grasped the object and brings it over    0.50: if the robot grasped the object and brings it over
 the white bag;                                             the white bag;                                              the white bag;
 0.25: if the robot grasped the object;                     0.25: if the robot grasped the object;                      0.25: if the robot grasped the object;
 0.00: if the robot did not grasp the object.               0.00: if the robot did not grasp the object.                0.00: if the robot did not grasp the object.


 “Pick up the black beanie and place it in the white        “Pick up the gummy bear bag and place it in the
 bag”.                                                      white bag”.

 1.00: if the robot placed the object in the white bag;     1.00: if the robot placed the object in the white bag;
 0.50: if the robot grasped the object and brings it over   0.50: if the robot grasped the object and brings it over
 the white bag;                                             the white bag;
 0.25: if the robot grasped the object;                     0.25: if the robot grasped the object;
 0.00: if the robot did not grasp the object.               0.00: if the robot did not grasp the object.




 Wipe the pear with the towel.                Push the red knob to close the               Out green block in the middle                 Put blue block in the left
                                              drawer with left hand.                       drawer.                                       drawer.




 Pick up the green shirt with                 Stack the orange tray on the                 Push the door to the right with
 your right hand and put it into              drawer.                                      your left hand.
 the brown wicker basket.




Figure 30 | Cross-embodiment tasks for ALOHA → Humanoid benchmark.




                                                                                                                                                                                     46
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




Table 15 | Progress Scores: ALOHA → Humanoid Benchmark.

                                                                    Benchmark: ALOHA → Humanoid robot.

 “Pick up the green shirt with its right hand and put          “Push the door to the right with its left hand”.            “Push the red knob to close the drawer with its left
 it into the brown wicker basket”.                                                                                         hand”.

 1.00: if the robot picked up the green shirt with its right   1.00: if the robot pushed the door to the right with its    1.00: if the robot closes the drawer at least halfway
 hand and put it into the brown wicker basket;                 left hand (door should be at least halfway through);        through;
 0.50: if the robot picked up the green shirt with its right   0.50: if the robot’s left hand touched the door;            0.50: if the robot’s hand touched the red knob;
 hand;                                                         0.00: if the robot did anything else.                       0.00: if the robot did anything else.
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.


 “Stack the orange tray on the drawer”.                        “Put blue block in the left drawer”.                        “Put green block in the middle drawer”.

 1.00: if the robot picked up the orange tray and stacked      1.00: if the robot picked up the blue block and put it in   1.00: if the robot picked up the green block and put it
 it on the drawer;                                             the left drawer;                                            in the middle drawer;
 0.50: if the robot picked up the orange tray;                 0.50: if the robot picked up the blue block;                0.50: if the robot picked up the green block;
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                         0.00: if the robot did anything else.                       0.00: if the robot did anything else.


 “Wipe the pear with towel”.

 1.00: if the robot wiped the pear with the towel;
 0.50: if the robot grabbed the towel;
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.




                                                                                                                                                                                     47
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



B.4. Multi-step benchmark

The multi-step benchmarks combine individual tasks into compound instructions (i.e., A then B then
C) or abstract, goal-oriented instructions. For the compound instructions, we typically require a
particular order for the individual tasks in order to achieve a full score of 1.0. For example, for the
Apollo humanoid, several of our multi-step tasks combine individual gift packing tasks into compound
instructions such as "put the stress ball in the white bag, then put the gummy bear bag in the white
bag, then put the white socks in the white bag" and require this exact order for a perfect score. We
also include abstract, goal-oriented instructions such as “pack all the gifts” or “sort the snacks into
their matching containers by color”, though these are less common across the benchmarks. The next
paragraphs show the tasks and their progress score system for each embodiment.

B.4.1. ALOHA robot

Figure 31 shows visuals of the tasks and Table 16 defines the progress score for each task.

Place the red pepper in the red    Grab the zipper then unzip the   Take the green plate out of the    Put all the yellow fruits on the
plate, then put green apple in     bag fully, then place the        white bag, and put the stress      yellow plate, green fruit on the
the green plate, then put          banana inside.                   ball in the white bag, and push    green plate, red fruit on the red
yellow cube in the yellow plate.                                    the bag to the top of the table.   plate.




Open the lid of the trash bin,     Open the middle drawer, then     Open the right drawer, then        Place the red pepper, green
then pick up the ball and          left, then right.                left, then middle.                 apple, and yellow cube in
place it inside the trash bin,                                                                         plates with matching colors.
then close the lid of the trash
bin.




Figure 31 | Tasks in the multi-step benchmark for the ALOHA.



B.4.2. Bi-arm Franka robot

Figure 31 shows visuals of the tasks and Table 17 defines the progress score for each task.

B.4.3. Humanoid robot

Figure 33 shows visuals of the tasks and Table 18 defines the progress score for each task.




                                                                                                                                       48
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




Table 16 | Progress Scores: ALOHA Robot (Multi-step benchmark).

                                                                    Benchmark: ALOHA Robot - Multi-step.

 “Unzip the lunchbag and then place the banana in             “Place the red pepper, green apple, and yellow cube         “Place the red pepper in the red plate, then put green
 the lunchbag”.                                               in plates with matching colors”.                            apple in the green plate, then put yellow cube in the
                                                                                                                          yellow plate”.

 1.00: if the robot fully unzipped the lunch bag and          1.00: if the robot placed all three objects correctly in    1.00: if the robot placed all three objects correctly in
 placed the banana in the lunchbag;                           the matching plates;                                        the matching plates;
 0.50: if the robot fully unzipped the lunch bag;             0.70: if the robot placed two objects on the correct        0.70: if the robot placed two objects on the correct
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                        matching plates, but failed for third object;               matching plates, but failed for third object;
                                                              0.40: if if the robot picked one object and successfully    0.40: if the robot picked one object and successfully
                                                              placed it on the correct plate, but failed to do that for   placed it on the correct plate, but failed to do that for
                                                              second object;                                              second object;
                                                              0.20: if the robot picked one object but failed to put it   0.20: if the robot picked one object but failed to put it
                                                              on the right plate;                                         on the right plate;
                                                              0.00: if the robot didn’t approach any of the objects or    0.00: if the robot didn’t approach any of the objects or
                                                              approached plates directly.                                 approached plates directly.


 “Open the middle drawer, then left, then right”.             “Open the right drawer, then left, then middle”.            “Open the lid of the trash bin, then pick up the ball
                                                                                                                          and place it inside the trash bin, then close the lid
                                                                                                                          of the trash bin”.

 1.00: if the robot opened all three drawers in correct       1.00: if the robot opened all three drawers in correct      1.00: if the robot successfully opened the lid, put the
 order;                                                       order;                                                      ball in the bin, then closes the lid;
 0.60: if the robot opened the middle then left drawer        0.60: if the robot opened the right then left drawer but    0.75: if the robot failed to close the lid after putting the
 but failed to open the right drawer;                         failed to open the middle drawer;                           ball in the trash bin;
 0.30: if the robot opened the middle drawer but failed       0.30: if the robot opened the right drawer but failed to    0.50: if the robot opened the trash bin lid, picked up
 to open the left drawer next;                                open the left drawer next;                                  the ball, but failed to put the ball in the trash bin;
 0.00: if the robot failed to open the middle drawer first.   0.00: if the robot failed to open the right drawer first.   0.25: if the robot opened the trash bin lid but failed to
                                                                                                                          pick up the ball next;
                                                                                                                          0.00: if the robot didn’t open the trash bin lid.


 “Take the green plate out of the white bag, and put          “Put all the yellow fruits on the yellow plate, green
 the stress ball in the white bag, and push the bag to        fruit on the green plate, red fruit on the red plate”.
 the top of the table”.

 1.00: if the robot completes the entire task successfully;   1.00: if the robot put all fruits in the correct plate;
 0.70: if the robot took the green plate out of the bag,      0.80: if the robot put 4 fruits in the correct plate;
 put the stress ball in the bag, but failed to push the bag   0.60: if the robot put 3 fruits in the correct plate;
 to the top of the table;                                     0.20: if the robot put 2 fruits in the correct plate;
 0.30: if the robot took the green plate out of the bag       0.20: if the robot put 1 fruit in the correct plate;
 but failed to put the stress ball into the bag;              0.00: if the robot put none of the fruits in the correct
 0.00: if the robot failed to take the green plate out of     plate.
 the bag.




                                                                                                                                                                                         49
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




Insert the power cable in the     Insert the power cable and      Remove the power cable from    Remove the orange lan cable
computer, insert the orange lan   unhang the headphones from      the computer, hang the         and then the power cable from
cable and unhang the              the wall.                       headphones and unplug the      the computer.
headphones.                                                       black power cable from the
                                                                  socket.




Place all the markers on the      Place all the wrenches on the   Place all the gears from the   Put the tape and then the
table.                            table.                          table into any container.      scissors onto the table.




Place the spirit level and the
brush on the table.




Figure 32 | Tasks in the multi-step benchmark for the Bi-arm Franka.




                                                                                                                              50
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




Table 17 | Progress Scores: Bi-arm Franka (Multi-step benchmark).

                                                                    Benchmark: Bi-arm Franka - Multi-step.

 “Insert the power cable in the computer, insert the          “Insert the power cable and unhang the headphones            “Remove the power cable from the computer, hang
 orange lan cable and unhang the headphones”.                 from the wall”.                                              the headphones and unplug the black power cable
                                                                                                                           from the socket”.

 1.00: if the robot successfully completed the third task;    1.00: if the robot successfully completed both tasks;        1.00: if the robot successfully completed the remaining
 0.75: if the robot successfully completed the remaining      0.75: if the robot attempted to complete the remaining       task;
 task;                                                        task;                                                        0.75: if the robot grasped and attempted the remaining
 0.60: if the robot successfully completed the second         0.50: if the robot successfully inserted the cable or un-    task;
 task;                                                        hung the headphones;                                         0.60: if the robot is successful in completing one of the
 0.45: if the robot grasped and attempted one of the          0.25: if the robot attempted to insert the cable or un-      remaining two tasks;
 remaining two tasks;                                         hang the headphones;                                         0.45: if the robot grasped and attempted one of the
 0.30: if the robot successfully inserted the power cable     0.00: if the robot didn’t do anything.                       remaining two tasks;
 or the lan cable or unhung the headphones;                                                                                0.30: if the robot is successful in removing the power
 0.15: if the robot grasped and attempted to insert the                                                                    cable, unplugging the plug from the socket or hanging
 power cable or the lan cable or unhang the headphones;                                                                    the headphones;
 0.00: if the robot didn’t attempt to insert the power                                                                     0.15: if the robot grasped and attempted to either re-
 cable or insert the lan cable or unhang the headphones.                                                                   move the power cable, unplug the plug from the socket
                                                                                                                           or to hang the headphones;
                                                                                                                           0.00: if the robot didn’t attempt to remove the power
                                                                                                                           cable, unplug the plug from the socket or to hang the
                                                                                                                           headphones.


 “Remove the orange lan cable and then the power              “Place all the markers on the table”.                        “Place all the wrenches on the table”.
 cable from the computer”.

 1.00: if the robot successfully removed both cables;         1.00: if the robot placed the remaining marker on the        1.00: if the robot successfully unhung and placed the
 0.75: if the robot grasped and attempted to remove the       table;                                                       fourth wrench on the table;
 remaining cable;                                             0.80: if the robot grasped the remaining marker;             0.90: if the robot grasped the fourth wrench;
 0.50: if the robot successfully removed either the lan       0.70: if the robot reached for the remaining marker of       0.85: if the robot reached for a fourth wrench;
 cable or the power cable from the computer;                  any colour;                                                  0.75: if the robot successfully unhung and placed the
 0.25: if the robot grasped and attempted to remove ei-       0.67: if the robot placed the second marker on the table;    third wrench on the table;
 ther the lan cable or the power cable from the computer;     0.50: if the robot grasped the second marker of any          0.65: if the robot grasped the third wrench;
 0.00: if the robot didn’t attempt to remove either cable.    colour;                                                      0.60: if the robot reached for a third wrench;
                                                              0.40: if the robot reached for the second marker of any      0.50: if the robot successfully unhung and placed the
                                                              colour;                                                      second wrench on the table;
                                                              0.33: if the robot placed the first marker on the table;     0.40: if the robot grasped the second wrench;
                                                              0.20: if the robot grasped the first marker of any colour;   0.35: if the robot reached for a second wrench;
                                                              0.10: if the robot reached for a first marker of any         0.25: if the robot successfully unhung and placed the
                                                              colour;                                                      first wrench on the table;
                                                              0.00: if the robot placed no markers on the table.           0.15: if the robot grasped the first wrench;
                                                                                                                           0.10: if the robot reached for a first wrench;
                                                                                                                           0.00: if the robot placed no wrenches on the table.


 “Place all the gears from the table into any con-            “Put the tape and then the scissors onto the table”.         “Place the spirit level and the brush on the table”.
 tainer”.

 1.00: if the robot placed the remaining gear in any          1.00: if the robot placed the scissors on the table;         1.00: if the robot placed the remaining item on the
 container;                                                   0.75: if the robot grasped the scissors;                     table;
 0.80: if the robot grasped the remaining third gear on       0.60: if the robot reached for the scissors;                 0.75: if the robot grasped the remaining item;
 the table;                                                   0.50: if the robot successfully placed the tape on the       0.60: if the robot reached for the remaining item;
 0.70: if the robot reached for the remaining third gear      table;                                                       0.50: if the robot successfully placed the spirit level or
 on the table;                                                0.25: if the robot grasped the tape;                         the brush on the table;
 0.66: if the robot placed the second gear in any con-        0.10: if the robot reached for the tape;                     0.25: if the robot grasped the spirit level or the brush;
 tainer;                                                      0.00: if the robot didn’t place any item on the table.       0.10: if the robot reached for either the spirit level or
 0.50: if the robot grasped the second gear;                                                                               the brush;
 0.40: if the robot reached for a second gear on the table;                                                                0.00: if the robot didn’t place any item on the table.
 0.33: if the robot placed the first gear in any container;
 0.20: if the robot grasped the first gear;
 0.10: if the robot reached for a first gear on the table;
 0.00: if the robot didn’t place or attempt to put back
 any gears back in the container.




                                                                                                                                                                                        51
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




First put the gummy bear bag       First put the rubik's cube in the   Put the stress ball in the white   Put the white shirt in the white
in the white bag and then put      white bag and then put the          bag, then put the gummy bear       box and then put the red shirt
the stress ball in the white bag   white socks in the white bag.       bag in the white bag, then put     in the black box.
                                                                       the white socks in the white
                                                                       bag.




Put the dark colored clothes       Stack the right orange cone on      Place all the green lettuces on    Put the leftmost light blue
in the black box and then put      top of the left orange cone and     the table into the brown bowl      chips bag in the blue bin and
the white clothes in the white     then put the green lettuce in       and then picks up the orange       then put the bottom green
box.                               the brown bowl.                     cone.                              chips in the green bin.




Figure 33 | Tasks in the multi-step benchmark for the Apollo humanoid.




                                                                                                                                          52
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer


Table 18 | Progress Scores: Humanoid Robot (Multi-step benchmark).

                                                                  Benchmark: Humanoid Robot - Multi-step.

 “First put the gummy bear bag in the white bag and           “First put the rubik’s cube in the white bag and then        “Put the stress ball in the white bag, then put the
 then put the stress ball in the white bag”.                  put the white socks in the white bag”.                       gummy bear bag in the white bag, then put the white
                                                                                                                           socks in the white bag”.

 1.00: if the robot successfully put gummy bear bag into      1.00: if the robot successfully put the rubikś cube in the   1.00: if the robot put the stress ball in the white bag
 the white bag and then put stress ball into the white        white bag and then put the white socks into the white        and then put the gummy bears in the white bag and
 bag and only those 2 items;                                  bag and only those 2 items;                                  then put the white socks in the white bag;
 0.90: if the robot put the gummy bear bag in the white       0.90: if the robot put the rubikś cube in the white bag      0.90: if the robot put the stress ball in the white bag
 bag and then put the stress ball in the white bag;           and then put the white socks in the white bag – order        and then put the gummy bears in the white bag and
 0.75: if the robot put the gummy bear bag in the white       matters;                                                     then put the white socks in the white bag;
 bag and then picked up the stress ball;                      0.75: if the robot put the rubikś cube in the white bag      0.75: if the robot put the stress ball in the white bag
 0.60: if the robot put the gummy bear bag in the white       and then picked up the white socks – order matters;          and then put the gummy bears in the white bag and
 bag;                                                         0.60: if the robot put the rubikś cube in the white bag;     then picked up the white socks;
 0.45: if the robot picked up the gummy bear bag and          0.45: if the robot picked up the rubikś cube and did not     0.60: if the robot put the stress ball in the white bag
 did not place it in the white bag;                           place it in the white bag;                                   and then put the gummy bears in the white bag;
 0.30: if the robot put the stress ball and the gummy         0.30: if the robot put the white socks in the bag and        0.45: if the robot put the stress ball in the white bag
 bear bag in the white bag but in the wrong order;            then put the rubikś cube in the white bag;                   and then picked up the gummy bears;
 0.20: if the robot put the stress ball in the white bag;     0.20: if the robot put the white socks in the white bag;     0.30: if the robot put the stress ball in the white bag;
 0.10: if the robot put something in the white bag but        0.10: if the robot put something in the white bag but        0.15: if the robot picked up the stress ball;
 itś not the stress ball or the gummy bear bag;               itś *not* the rubikś cube or white socks;                    0.00: if the robot did anything else.
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                        0.00: if the robot did anything else.


 “Stack the right orange cone on top of the left orange       “Put the dark colored clothes in the black box and           “Put the white shirt in the white box and then put
 cone and then put the green lettuce in the brown             then put the white clothes in the white box”.                the red shirt in the black box”.
 bowl”.

 1.00: if the robot stacked the right orange cone on the      1.00: if the robot put 3 colored shirts in the black box,    1.00: if the robot put the white shirt in the white box,
 left orange cone and then put the green lettuce in the       *then* put the white shirt in the white box;                 then put the red shirt in the black box;
 brown bowl;                                                  0.75: if the robot put 3 colored shirts in the black box;    0.75: if the robot put the white shirt in the white box,
 0.75: if the robot stacked the right orange cone on the      0.50: if the robot put 2 colored shirts in the black box;    then touched the red shirt;
 left orange cone and then touched the green lettuce;         0.25: if the robot put 1 colored shirt in the black box;     0.50: if the robot put the white shirt in the white box;
 0.50: if the robot stacked the right orange cone on the      0.00: if the robot did anything else.                        0.25: if the robot touched the white shirt;
 left orange cone;                                                                                                         0.00: if the robot did anything else.
 0.25: if the robot touched the right orange cone;
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.


 “Place all the green lettuces on the table into the          “Put the leftmost light blue chips bag in the blue bin       “Put the white clothes in the black box and then put
 brown bowl and then picked up the orange cone”.              and then put the bottom green chips in the green             the dark colored clothes in the white box”.
                                                              bin”.

 1.00: if the robot put 3 lettuces in the brown bowl, then    1.00: if the robot put the leftmost blue chips bag in the    1.00: if the robot put the white shirt in the black box,
 picked up the orange cone;                                   blue bin and then put the bottom green chips in the          then put 3 colored shirts in the white box;
 0.75: if the robot put 3 lettuce in the brown bowl;          green bin;                                                   0.75: if the robot put the white shirt in the black box,
 0.50: if the robot put 2 lettuce in the brown bowl;          0.75: if the robot put the leftmost blue chips bag in the    then put 2 colored shirts in the white box;
 0.25: if the robot put 1 lettuce in the brown bowl;          blue bin and then touched the bottom green chips;            0.50: if the robot put the white shirt in the black box,
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                        0.50: if the robot put the leftmost blue chips bag in the    then put 1 colored shirt in the white box;
                                                              blue bin;                                                    0.25: if the robot put the white shirt in the black box;
                                                              0.25: if the robot put any blue snack in the blue bin;       0.00: if the robot did anything else.
                                                              0.00: if the robot did anything else.


 “First put all the blue snacks in the blue bin and then      “Sort the snacks into their matching containers by           “Pack all the gifts”.
 put all the green snacks in the green bin”.                  color”.

 1.00: if the robot put 3 blue snacks in the blue bin, then   1.00: if the robot put 5 snacks into their matching color    1.00: if the robot packed all 5 gifts into the white bag;
 put 2 green snacks in the green bin;                         bins;                                                        0.80: if the robot packed 4 gifts into the white bag;
 0.80: if the robot put 3 blue snacks in the blue bin, then   0.80: if the robot put 4 snacks into their matching color    0.60: if the robot packed 3 gifts into the white bag;
 put 1 green snack in the green bin;                          bins;                                                        0.40: if the robot packed 2 gifts into the white bag;
 0.60: if the robot put 3 blue snacks in the blue bin;        0.60: if the robot put 3 snacks into their matching color    0.20: if the robot packed 1 gift into the white bag;
 0.40: if the robot put 2 blue snacks in the blue bin;        bins;                                                        0.00: if the robot did anything else.
 0.20: if the robot put 1 blue snack in the blue bin;         0.40: if the robot put 2 snacks into their matching color
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                        bins;
                                                              0.20: if the robot put 1 snack into its matching color
                                                              bin;
                                                              0.00: if the robot did anything else.


 “Place the stress ball and the gummy bears in the            “First put the stress ball in the white bag and then
 white bag”.                                                  put the gummy bear bag in the white bag”.

 1.00: if the robot successfully put stress ball and gummy    1.00: if the robot successfully put stress ball into the
 bear bag into the white bag and only those 2 items;          white bag, then put gummy bear bag into the white bag
 0.80: if the robot successfully put stress ball and gummy    and only those 2 items – order matters;
 bear bag into the white bag but also put other items in      0.90: if the robot put the stress ball in the white bag
 the bag;                                                     and then put the gummy bear bag in the white bag;
 0.60: if the robot put either the stress ball or the gummy   0.75: if the robot put the stress ball in the white bag
 bear bag in the white bag, but not both, and successfully    and then picked up the gummy bear bag;
 picked up the other item but did not put it in the white     0.60: if the robot put the stress ball in the white bag;
 bag;                                                         0.45: if the robot picked up the stress ball and did not
 0.40: if the robot put either the stress ball or the gummy   place it in the white bag;
 bear bag in the white bag, but not both;                     0.30: if the robot put the gummy bear bag and the stress
 0.20: if the robot put something in the white bag but        ball in the white bag but in the wrong order;
 itś *not* the stress ball or the gummy bear bag;             0.20: if the robot put the gummy bear bag in the white
 0.00: if the robot did anything else.                        bag;
                                                              0.10: if the robot put something in the white bag but
                                                              itś not the stress ball or the gummy bear bag;
                                                              0.00: if the robot did anything else.




                                                                                                                                                                                       53
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



B.5. Success rate

In this section we report the success rate for all our results in Section 3.

B.5.1. Success rate for generalization performance

                                                                    Gemini Robotics 1.5                    Gemini Robotics                 Gemini Robotics On-Device
                                                   1.0


                                                  0.8


                                                                 0.72


                                   Success Rate
                                                  0.6

                 ALOHA
                                                                                                                                                 0.71
                                                                        0.63                                                       0.67
                                                                                      0.62
                                                                               0.52                                                       0.58
                                                  0.4
                                                                                                              0.47
                                                                                                    0.42                                                0.39
                                                  0.2                                        0.33
                                                                                                                     0.20                                      0.19
                                                                                                                            0.14                                      0.12
                                                  0.0
                                                                 In-Distribution       Instruction              Action                Visual               Task
                                                                                      Generalization         Generalization        Generalization       Generalization

                                                           1.0



                                                           0.8




                 Bi-arm Franka              Success Rate
                                                           0.6

                                                                    0.58
                                                                                         0.61
                                                           0.4                                                       0.52                 0.53

                                                                                                0.11                                                           0.33
                                                           0.2
                                                                                                                                                 0.07
                                                                           0.19                                                                                       0.05
                                                                                                                            0.18
                                                           0.0
                                                                 In-Distribution        Instruction               Action                Visual               Task
                                                                                       Generalization          Generalization        Generalization       Generalization

                                                           1.0


                                                           0.8




                 Apollo Humanoid
                                            Success Rate
                                                           0.6
                                                                    0.64                                                                  0.64
                                                                                         0.56
                                                           0.4
                                                                                                                     0.51
                                                                                                                                                               0.40

                                                           0.2
                                                                           0.19                                                                  0.07
                                                                                                0.15                                                                  0.03
                                                                                                                            0.10
                                                           0.0
                                                                 In-Distribution        Instruction               Action                Visual               Task
                                                                                       Generalization          Generalization        Generalization       Generalization


Figure 34 | Breakdown of GR 1.5 generalization capabilities across our robots. GR 1.5 consistently outperforms
the baselines and handles all four types of variations more effectively.




                                                                                                                                                                             54
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



B.5.2. Success rate for data and model ablation

                                                                        Gemini Robotics 1.5
                                                                        Gemini Robotics 1.5 (Multi-embodiment, no Motion Transfer)
                                                                        Gemini Robotics 1.5 (Single embodiment, no Motion Transfer)
                                            1.0



                                            0.8



                                            0.6
                                                  0.72                                                                  0.75 0.75


           ALOHA             Success Rate
                                                                                                                 0.67
                                                         0.58          0.62
                                            0.4
                                                                0.52
                                                                                     0.50   0.47
                                                                              0.46
                                                                                                                                      0.39
                                                                                                   0.31                                             0.33
                                            0.2                                                                                              0.30
                                                                                                          0.24

                                            0.0
                                                  In-Distribution       Instruction            Action               Visual               Task
                                                                       Generalization       Generalization       Generalization       Generalization
                                            1.0




                                            0.8




           Bi-arm Franka
                                            0.6


                             Success Rate
                                                  0.58
                                                         0.54          0.61 0.61
                                            0.4                                             0.52          0.52   0.53
                                                                0.39                               0.42
                                                                                     0.39                                             0.33
                                            0.2

                                                                                                                        0.27                 0.21
                                                                                                                               0.20                 0.11
                                            0.0
                                                  In-Distribution       Instruction            Action               Visual               Task
                                                                       Generalization       Generalization       Generalization       Generalization
                                            1.0




                                            0.8




           Apollo Humanoid
                                            0.6


                             Success Rate
                                                  0.64                                                           0.64
                                                         0.61                                                           0.61
                                                                       0.56
                                                                0.54
                                                                                            0.51 0.49
                                            0.4                               0.48
                                                                                                                               0.43
                                                                                                                                      0.40 0.39
                                                                                     0.37                 0.35
                                            0.2




                                            0.0
                                                                                                                                                    0.09
                                                  In-Distribution       Instruction            Action               Visual               Task
                                                                       Generalization       Generalization       Generalization       Generalization

Figure 35 | Ablation on datasets and training recipes on our robots: GR 1.5 consistently outperforms our
baselines: GR 1.5 trained on single or multi-robot data without the MT recipe.




                                                                                                                                                           55
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



B.5.3. Success rate for thinking ablation

                                                 1.0
                                                         Gemini Robotics 1.5 (Thinking on)    Gemini Robotics 1.5


                                                 0.8




                                                 0.6



                                  Success Rate
                                                 0.4
                                                                               0.44
                                                                                       0.42      0.40

                                                       0.38
                                                 0.2
                                                              0.09                                       0.26



                                                 0.0
                                                         ALOHA                Bi-arm Franka       Humanoid

Figure 36 | Ablation of thinking: success rate in the multi-step benchmark with and without enabling thinking
during inference.




                                                                                                                              56
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



C. Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 is a generalist embodied reasoning model

C.1. Evaluation Details: Generality

To assess an overall approximation of model embodied reasoning performance, we evaluate Gemini
Robotics-ER 1.5 and other multimodal models on a mix of 15 academic benchmarks. The aggregated
results are reported in Fig. 8, and the individual benchmark performance results are shown in Table
19 and Table 20. For text-based VQA evaluation benchmarks, we used Gemini 2.5 Flash to grade
response accuracy for both multiple-choice and freeform question formats.
    The Gemini 2.5 and GPT-5 models were accessed in between September 1, 2025 and September
20, 2025, using default thinking budgets and without tool use.

                               GR-ER       GR-ER                   Gemini 2.5        Gemini 2.5
 Model                                                 GR-ER                                           GPT-5      GPT-5-mini
                                1.5         1.5                       Pro              Flash
 Thinking                        Yes          No          No            Yes               Yes           Yes            Yes
 Point-Bench                    71.6        73.3        75.7           62.7              61.7           43.6          39.5
 RefSpatial                     48.5        41.8        49.3           33.6              41.2           23.5          23.0
 RoboSpatial-Pointing           31.1        25.3        30.3            8.3               7.9           19.0          12.5
 Where2Place                    59.0        48.0        41.0           37.0              48.0           37.0          33.5
 Spatial average                52.6        47.1        49.1           35.4              39.7           30.8          27.1
 BLINK                          57.8        65.2        60.1           69.2              46.1          71.3           66.4
 CV-Bench                       84.3        83.6        83.2           85.9              85.5          86.1           85.9
 ERQA                           54.8        47.0        45.3           56.0              47.5          59.0           57.3
 EmbSpatial                     78.4        73.4        56.4           78.0              76.2          81.5           78.8
 MindCube                       54.7        47.7        47.4           59.2              55.4          58.0           55.6
 RoboSpatial-VQA                79.3        57.7        66.2           71.3              73.4          69.3           70.7
 SAT                            76.7        62.0        64.7           74.7              73.3          86.7           81.3
 Cosmos-Reason1                 72.2        68.3        62.0           73.8              72.1          79.4           76.3
 Min Video Pairs                72.5        67.1        59.5           72.8              69.2          77.0           73.0
 OpenEQA                        55.0        50.5        38.3           55.7              45.3          64.4           59.2
 VSI-Bench                      45.8        39.9        34.1           51.1              45.3          52.9           46.2
 QA average                      66.5       60.2        56.1           68.0              62.7          71.4           68.2
 ER Score                       59.6        53.7        52.6           51.7              51.2           51.1          47.7
 Overall Average                62.8        56.7        54.2           59.3              56.5           60.6          57.3

Table 19 | Model performance on a mix of 15 academic embodied reasoning benchmarks. GPT-5 and GPT-5-mini
results obtained via API in September 2025.


C.2. Evaluation Details: Pointing

Table 21 shows detailed breakdown of the evaluation for complex pointing.


C.3. Additional Examples

Fig. 37 illustrates sampled thoughts from GR-ER 1.5 on embodied reasoning tasks.



                                                                                                                              57
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




   Model                 GR-ER 1.5         GR-ER 1.5       GR-ER       Pro 2.5     Flash 2.5        GPT-5     GPT-5-mini
   Thinking                  Yes               No            No          Yes           Yes           Yes           Yes
   MMMU                      80.7             79.3          67.0        82.0          79.7          82.0           78.0
   GPQA                      83.3             81.3          59.6        86.4          82.8          88.4           78.3
   Aider Polyglot            57.3             44.4          16.0        82.2          56.7          81.3           66.7
   Average                   73.8             68.3          47.5        83.5          73.1          83.9           74.3

Table 20 | Model performance on MMMU, GPQA and Aider Polyglot benchmarks. Results for GPT-5 and
GPT-5-mini obtained via API with default thinking settings and no tool use in September 2025.




Table 21 | Model performance on complex pointing benchmarks, broken down by subtask.

                                    GR-ER     GR-ER                   Gemini 2.5        Gemini 2.5
 Model                                                    GR-ER                                            GPT-5     GPT-5-mini
                                     1.5       1.5                       Pro              Flash
 Thinking                            Yes         No          No             Yes              Yes            Yes           Yes
 Standard Pointing
 Point-Bench-Affordance             70.9        76.5        87.9           65.3              67.8           58.1          50.0
 Point-Bench-Counting               86.8        86.8        88.4           77.5              73.1           53.7          56.8
 Point-Bench-Reasoning              61.7        69.0        64.8           55.4              49.4           33.0          28.3
 Steerable Pointing
 Point-Bench-Steerable              67.8        61.8        65.8           53.4              61.3           38.0          32.0
 Spatial Pointing
 Point-Bench-Spatial                71.0        72.6        71.9           61.9              57.2           35.4          30.3
 RefSpatial                         48.5        41.8        49.2           33.6              41.1           23.5          23.0
 RoboSpatial                        31.1        25.3        30.3            8.3               7.9           19.0          12.5
 Where2Place                        59.0        48.0        41.0           22.0              48.0           37.0          33.5
 Point-to-Count
 PixMo Count                        80.0        65.0        60.0           76.0              64.0           73.0          77.0
 Average                            52.6        47.1        49.1           35.4              39.7           30.8          27.1




                                                                                                                              58
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




       What does the gauge read?                                   Select model thoughts                                            Model response


                                                Analyze the gauge's features:                                       Based on the image, the gauge reads
                                                * Scale: The gauge measures temperature in degrees                  approximately 60°F.
                                                Fahrenheit (°F). This is indicated by "°F" written on the
                                                lower part of the dial.                                             Here's how to interpret the reading:
                                                * Numbers: The major markings on the scale are 30, 50,              1. The large numbers on the dial are in
                                                80, 110, 140, 170, 200, 230, 250                                    increments, such as 30, 50, 80, 110, etc. The
                                                                                                                    unit is marked as °F (degrees Fahrenheit).
                                                Read the pointer position:
                                                                                                                    2. The pointer is located between 50°F and
                                                *The pointer is between the numbers 50 and 80.
                                                * If the interval between 50 and 80 is 30 degrees, and              80°F.
                                                there are two tick marks dividing it into three equal               3. Between 50°F and 80°F, there are two
                                                sections, each section would be 10 degrees. The first tick          unlabeled tick marks. This divides the
                                                mark after 50 would represent 60. The second tick mark              30-degree interval into three sections, with
                                                would represent 70.                                                 each section representing 10 degrees (50 +
                                                * The pointer is pointing to the unnumbered tick mark               10 = 60; 60 + 10 = 70; 70 + 10 = 80).
                                                that is immediately after the 50 mark.                              4. The pointer is pointing directly at the first
                                                * Therefore, the value is 50 + 10 = 60 degrees Fahrenheit.          tick mark after 50°F, which represents 60°F.

   Match all of the socks by pointing to
  them and labeling them based on their                            Select model thoughts                                            Model response
 pattern. Make sure matching socks have
              the same label.                   Identify individual socks and their patterns:
                                                * Sock 3 (center-top): Light blue sock with small white
                                                dots. It's partially obscured. Pattern: small white dots.
                                                Let's look for a match.
                                                * Sock 4 (bottom-center): Light blue sock with small
                                                white dots. This matches Sock 3.

                                                Create pairs based on matching patterns:
                                                * Pair 1: Cat face socks. Sock 1 ([y: 250, x: 380]) and Sock
                                                2 ([y: 350, x: 700]). Label: "cat face".
                                                * Pair 2: Small dot socks. Sock 3 ([y: 350, x: 580]) and
                                                Sock 4 ([y: 800, x: 400]). Label: "small dots".


   Point to the handle of the mug. Plot a
 trajectory that traces the position of the                        Select model thoughts                                            Model response
    handle as it is rotated in place by 90
                   degrees.                     Determine the center of rotation: For "rotated in place,"
                                                the center of rotation is likely the center of the mug itself.
                                                The mug's center is roughly around [500, 250]. The handle
                                                starts at approximately [558, 100].

                                                Visualize the rotation: The handle is currently at the 9
                                                o'clock position relative to the mug's center. A 90-degree
                                                rotation clockwise would move it to the 6 o'clock position
                                                (bottom of the mug).

                                                Refine trajectory points: The trajectory should be an arc.
                                                Let's make it more visually representative of a rotation
                                                around the mug's center.
                                                * Start: [558, 100] (initial handle location)
                                                * Point 1: [500, 120] (moving upwards and inwards)
                                                * Point 2: [450, 180] (approaching the top-left corner)
                                                * Point 3: [400, 250] (arriving at the top of the mug)


  I am a robot with a payload       I need to look at the image, identify the objects, estimate their weight, and
    of 10LBs. Point to all the      determine if they are less than Select
                                                                    or equalmodel  thoughts
                                                                              to 10lbs.                                                      Model response
    objects in the image I am
    physically able to pick up      Dumbbells: There are two purple dumbbells. The label on the dumbbells clearly
                                    reads "Prosource Fit 5LBS". This means each dumbbell weighs 5 pounds.
                                    Resistance Bands/Loop Bands: There are several resistance bands on the floor.
                                    Resistance bands typically weigh very little, usually a few ounces to less than a
                                    pound each. A 10 lb payload limit is more than sufficient to lift a single resistance
                                    band, or even all visible bands together.
                                    Furniture/Chair: There is a wooden piece of furniture (desk or cabinet) on the left
                                    and a chair base on the right. These objects are clearly much heavier than 10lbs. A
                                    robot with a 10lb payload cannot lift them.

                                    Dumbbells: Each dumbbell weighs 5lbs. The robot can lift one dumbbell (5lbs <=
                                    10lbs). Can it lift both? 5lbs + 5lbs = 10lbs. The payload limit is exactly 10lbs. The
                                    question asks "pick up", which could mean one or both.


Figure 37 | Sample thoughts from GR-ER 1.5 performing embodied reasoning tasks.


                                                                                                                                                                       59
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



D. Gemini Robotics 1.5: A Physical Agent

D.1. Long-horizon benchmarks

Our long-horizon benchmarks evaluate the combination of the GR-ER 1.5 model with the VLA as an
autonomous agent. Fig. 38 shows visuals of the 4 tasks in the ALOHA long-horizon benchmark. The
progress is scored as the sum of points scored along each subtask (Table 22). Fig. 39 shows visuals
of the 4 tasks on the Bi-arm Franka long-horizon benchmark. The progress is scored as the sum of
points scored along each subtask (Table 23).

Table 22 | Progress Scores: ALOHA Robot (Long-horizon Benchmark).

                                                                           Benchmark: ALOHA Robot - Long-horizon.

 Trash Sorting: “Put the compostables               Desk Organization: “What is the state               Packing Suitcase: “Put the hat and      Blocks in drawer: “Open each drawer,
 into the green bin, the recyclables into           of the objects in the table? Return them            socks into the suitcase then pack the   and put one block in each drawer”.
 the blue bin, and the waste into the               to their original locations”.                       colorful shirt that’s on the hanger”.
 black bin”.

  0.2 is added per item in the correct bin:          0.2 is added per item in the correct state:        0.25 is added per:                      0.11 is added per:
  – red grapes in the green bin;                     – red pen in the pen holder;                       – white beanie in the suitcase;         – left drawer was opened;
  – lettuce leaf in the green bin;                   – blue pen in the pen holder;                      – blue socks in the suitcase;           – any block in left drawer;
  – aluminum can in the blue bin;                    – green marker in the cork tray;                   – shirt taken off the hanger;           – left drawer closed;
  – plastic cup in the blue bin;                     – glasses case closed;                             – shirt in the suitcase.                – middle drawer was opened;
  – energy bar wrapper in the black bin.             – laptop closed.                                                                           – any block in middle drawer;
                                                                                                                                                – middle drawer closed;
                                                                                                                                                – right drawer was opened;
                                                                                                                                                – any block in right drawer;
                                                                                                                                                – right drawer closed.




 Trash Sorting




 Put the compostables into the green bin, the recyclables into the blue bin, and the waste into the black bin.

 Desk Organization




 What is the state of the objects on the table?                       Return the objects to their original locations.

Packing Suitcase




 Put the hat and socks into the suitcase, then pack the colorful shirt that's on the hanger

 Blocks in drawers




 Open each drawer, and put one block in each drawer




Figure 38 | ALOHA long-horizon benchmark.




                                                                                                                                                                                   60
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer




Table 23 | Progress Scores: Bi-arm Franka (Long-horizon Benchmark).

                                                                 Benchmark: Bi-arm Franka - Long-horizon.

 Swap: "Swap the sardines and the yel-        Top shelf to the table: "Put all the ob-   Mushroom risotto: "Pack all ingredi-   Vegetarian with nut allergy: "I am vege-
 low bottle".                                 jects from the top right shelf onto the    ents for a mushroom risotto into the   tarian and allergic to nuts. Can you put
                                              table".                                    basket".                               all the food I can’t eat into the basket".

 0.33 is added per each subtask:              0.25 per each subtask:                     0.25 per each subtask:                 0.33 per each subtask:
  – lemon juice is in the correct location;   –   rice is on the table;                  –   mushrooms are in the basket;       – the can of sardines is into the basket;
  – can of sardines is in the correct loca-   –   corn is on the table;                  –   rice is in the basket;             – the granola is into the basket;
    tion;                                     –   lemon juice is on table;               –   stock cubes are in the basket;     – no unrelated task done.
  – no unrelated task done.                   –   no unrelated task done.                –   no unrelated task done.




 Vegetarian with nut allergy




 Swap




 Mushroom risotto




 Top shelf to the table




Figure 39 | Bi-arm Franka long-horizon benchmark.




                                                                                                                                                                         61
 Gemini Robotics 1.5: Pushing the Frontier of Generalist Robots with Advanced Embodied Reasoning, Thinking, and Motion Transfer



D.2. Success rate

Fig. 40 shows the success rate for the results in Section 5.
                                 1.0
                                                                 Agent (Gemini Robotics-ER 1.5 + Gemini Robotics 1.5)
                                                                 Agent (Gemini 2.5 Flash + Gemini Robotics 1.5)
                                 0.8                             Gemini Robotics 1.5 (Thinking on)




                  Success Rate
                                 0.6


                                 0.4                                                       0.20 0.20
                                         0.60

                                 0.2
                                                0.40            0.40
                                                       0.00             0.00 0.00                         0.00          0.00 0.00 0.00
                                 0.0
                                         Blocks in Drawer       Desk Organization       Sort Trash                       Pack Suitecase
                                                                              Task Type
                                 1.0


                                 0.8




                  Success Rate
                                 0.6


                                 0.4
                                         0.67                           0.67

                                 0.2


                                 0.0            0.33 0.00        0.33          0.00         0.33 0.00 0.33              0.00 0.00 0.00
                                       Top shelf to the table       Nut allergy                   Swap                  Mushroom risotto
                                                                                  Task Type

Figure 40 | Long-horizon evaluations for the GR 1.5 Agent on ALOHA (top) and Bi-arm Franka (bottom),
consisting of tasks that require advanced real-world understanding, tool use, long-horizon task planning,
execution and error recovery to successfully complete the complex long-horizon tasks.




                                                                                                                                           62
